When Jose Mourinho took the helm at Tottenham, he admits that he knew he had a gem pairing in Harry Kane and Son-Heung Min. Mourinho embraced the pair and his expertise has enabled them to become even more lethal in creating and scoring goals this season. Mourinho thinks they play like two men tied together on a mountain, perfectly balanced and each relying on the other and sharing their skills. They are the perfect match. In the game against Arsenal, Mourinho pointed out that Lo Celso collected the ball and passed it to Son. As the defence were drawn towards the Korean, Kane ran around the back of Son and forward and collected a delightfully accurate pass and hammered the ball into the net. Kane and Son have been a partnership for five incredible years now and scored 263 goals between them. And remember that Kane cost Spurs nothing as he rose from the junior ranks and Son was a superb investment for £22million. Mourinho has completely reversed his old defensive style and is now embracing a fast counter-attacking approach which is making Tottenham potential title winners. I have not seen Mourinho looking so happy for years. He meets us, talks to us and he is all smiles and positive in his remarks. Gone are the scowls, negative remarks and barbed sarcasm. The good times have returned for the Portuguese and he has succeeded in turning back the clock. He might even become the “Special One” once again, thanks to Kane and Son. Lampard returns Kante to his best position Frank Lampard learns his lessons quickly. N’Golo Kante justified his reputation as one of the best deep-lying defensive midfielders in the world. Lampard decided to push him further forward and Kante’s value to the team dropped significantly as he struggled to make an impact. Lampard then returned the diminutive Frenchman to his more familiar role and he has returned to form, dominating games again. Kante, to his great credit, is not the sort of player who makes a fuss and he never complained. However, his teammates say he is now much happier in his old role. Chelsea have looked so much better in midfield because of the change and Kante’s protection of his backline defenders is superb as he prevents gaps opening up and fills dangerous spaces. When Chelsea played Spurs Harry Kane and Son-Heung Min, for instance, could not find enough space to work together effectively because of Kante.  The end of the road for Bilic at the Hawthorns? West Bromwich Albion manager Slaven Bilic has had a rocky time of late. After clashing with the Chinese owners, his team occupy a perilous 19th place in the Premier League. Their last result was a 5-1 home thrashing by Crystal Palace which attracted the critical attention of the owners and many fans expressed their anger. This weekend, West Brom travel to Newcastle and if the Covid-19 hit Toons can field a team and win, I suspect Slaven might be out of a job on Monday morning.  Woodward to blame for Pogba agent outburst Anyone who reads my column every week knows my dislike for player agents. This week is typical of why I am so critical of these overpaid thorns in the side of football. Why an agent cannot arrange a transfer for a player and receive a flat fee of say, £100k I do not know. They take millions out of the game every year and that money comes from the high prices paid by fans at the turnstiles and TV subscriptions. This week was a typical example of an agent potentially interfering with the team's preparations for a big match. Paul Pogba has long been unsettled at Manchester United and has talked to close friends about leaving for quite some time. It was his agent Mino Raiola, however, who caused dismay at United on the eve of their must-win match against Leipzig in the Champions League, which they lost. Instead of supporting United, Raiola chose the moment to tell the world how unhappy Pogba is at Old Trafford. Manager Ole Gunner Solskjaer was furious, United Vice-Chairman Ed Woodward was furious and Pogba’s teammates were furious. Suddenly, the focus was on Pogba and not their endeavour to advance in the competition. However, it was, in my opinion, mainly the fault of executive vice-chairman Ed Woodward. Previous manager, Sir Alex Ferguson says he never liked Raiola and both he and Woodward’s predecessor David Gill kept the agent at arm's length, not allowing him any influence within the club. Woodward, on the other hand, has embraced Raiola and in Pogba’s transfer, the agent acted for both the player and the club! With Woodward’s support, Raiola feels he is entitled to comment on anything happening inside the club.  Chelsea in driving seat to sign Bayern’s Alaba David Alaba is without a doubt a quality player and he has told his agent Pini Zahavi to talk to Chelsea in the January transfer window. His current club, Bayern Munich, are trying to hold onto his. Alaba can play in central defence, midfield and is even effective as a winger. He would have to stay with the Bundesliga club until the summer but when his contract expires he will be free to go wherever he chooses. Zahavi is close to Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich and they have done business successfully on previous occasions. Whereas Chelsea are in the driving seat, other clubs are also showing interest in Alaba including Liverpool, Manchester City and Paris St Germain. Reports have reached me that Zahavi wants £18million to make a deal for his valuable client and this has prompted angry responses from some quarters who have described Zahavi as a “greedy piranha”. Alaba himself insists he has not spoken to any clubs as yet and maintains his loyalty to Bayern while he is still there. Meanwhile, coach Hansi Flick is still picking him for his starting line-up.  Solskjaer shows faith in Fosu-Mensah I must admit that it surprised me to see Manchester United offer a new contract to Timothy Fosu-Mensah. He joined the United Academy in 2014, graduated two years later and made his senior debut. Since then, he has rarely been seen in a United shirt and has spent much of his time on loan to Crystal Palace and Fulham. Injury took him back to United in 2019 but he has made only four starts in eight games and the most recent was a sub in this week’s Champions League match against Leipzig. Manager Ole Gunner Solskjaer has shown faith in the 22-year-old by using their one-year extension option. It is unclear what exactly the youngster plans to do but he can talk to other clubs in January if he decides to move on and explore other options.  Ziyech inspired by Eden Hazard Hakim Ziyech has already proven his considerable skills at Chelsea and this week the 27-year-old revealed that his great inspiration is the former Blue, Eden Hazard. The former Ajax forward, who signed for £38million said: “Eden is a world-class player and I always take inspiration from that and how he plays the game. You always look at the small things and how he does stuff —and I, Ziyech, insist the Blues’ squad can challenge for the title this year.” Hakim picked up an injury recently but Chelsea tell me that they hope he will be fit for the match against Everton this weekend.  Calvert-Lewin has been improved under Ferguson and Ancelotti Everton’s Dominic Calvert-Lewin has developed into one of the Premier League’s most lethal strikers. His goal tally this season has reached twelve and he is the league’s leading scorer. He has become much better in the air and always a goal threat with headers from balls crossed into the box. That is due to the work assistant coach Duncan Ferguson has put in with Dominic on the training field. Ferguson, himself a prolific goalscorer from headers in his days, made Calvert-Lewin his special project and it has paid off. Carlo Ancelotti arrived and added the finishing touches to his development. 12 of his 13 goals have been from one-touch football. Ancelotti has taught him how to make the most of his opportunities in front of goal. Recognising his exceptional season so far, England manager Gareth Southgate has given Calvert-Lewin his chance to impress on the world stage with a national team call-up.  Substitutes become the all-important factor With all the controversy surrounding the number of substitutes allowed during games, I found some interesting facts about this controversial subject. Pep Guardiola for instance, along with Liverpool’s Jurgen Klopp, has called for five substitutes per game because of hectic schedules and crowded fixtures. However, against Fulham last weekend, for the first time in 416 games as a manager, he did not make one single substitution. Manchester United have used 30 substitutes in their ten games so far which might explain why there is so little consistency in the Red’s performances this season. Both Klopp and Chelsea’s Frank Lampard used all but two of their substitutes in the same ten games.