Only 55 percent of the desks which were ordered by the national government under the Economic Stimulus Programme (ESP) in Murang’a have been delivered to various schools. The progress in delivery of the desks has been slow owing to delay in payment to contracted artisans. The government is seeking to increase the number of desks in schools to enhance social distancing among learners to check the spread of coronavirus when schools reopen on January 4, 2021. Murang'a county director of education Anne Kiilu said all the desks are expected to be delivered to schools within the first week of reopening. She said the artisans making the desks have been receiving their payments since the first week of December. “By December 17, we had received 30 per cent of desks for primary schools and another 25 percent for secondary schools. In each of the eight subcounties, we have selected 15 schools both in secondary and primary to benefit from the desks under the ESP,” Kiilu said. While some carpenters had completed making the desks, the official said others faced financial challenges leading to the delay. “From the beginning, the artisans were to receive down payment but delay by the government in releasing the funds forced some artisans to fail to do the work in time while others abandoned the work altogether.” Primary schools are expected to receive 8, 400 desks while secondary schools will get a total of 1, 602 desks. The schools will ensure there is the needed social distancing among learners as required by the Ministry of Health. “We are thinking of giving more work to artisans who have already completed  making the desks,” Kiilu said. She said many schools have met requirements stipulated by the Health Ministry to control the spread of Covid-19. “Majority of our schools have met the requirements. They are ready to admit learners come January 4. The big challenge will be observation of social distance and we have instructed teachers to take necessary precautions to avoid a spike of infections among students.” Some schools, she said, have tap water connected by local companies and others have harvested rain water. There are also enough boreholes to provide water for handwashing. “Many schools in this county don’t face water challenges. Schools without tap water or boreholes are advised to take measures on how to avail water for learners. The school administrators have been directed to ensure there is liquid soap for learners to wash their hands.”