Mount Kenya University has tapped a South African academic as its second vice-chancellor. Former University of Kwa Zulu-Natal don Deogratius Jaganyi takes over from Prof Stanley Waudo who has served the Thika-based institution since its inception in 2008. The new VC is expected to among other things oversee implementation of the university's 2020-2029 strategic plan. Prof Jaganyi who has a 25-year long experience in academia is expected to assume office on January 4, next year. He is a full professor with a PhD in physical chemistry obtained in 1992 from Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine, University of London, England. Jaganyi served for 10 years at the University of Kwa Zulu-Natal where he rose from deputy dean in the Faculty of Science and Agriculture to deputy vice-chancellor and head of the College of Agriculture. “The Mount Kenya University board of directors, chancellor, council, senate, management board, staff and students are delighted to welcome Prof Deogratius Jaganyi as the university’s second vice-chancellor. He reports on January 4, 2021. He will provide stewardship towards achieving the university’s mission, vision,” the university board of directors said on Monday. It is chaired by founder Simon Gicharu. Prof Jaganyi is expected to provide strategic leadership in the implementation of the university’s teaching and learning mandate through consistent provision of relevant academic programmes delivered in innovative settings, including enhanced e-learning as supported by state-of-the-art ICT infrastructure and technologies. He will enhance the university’s status as a premier research and innovation institution dedicated to the generation, dissemination and preservation of knowledge as well as enhance university mission of teaching, research and community outreach in order to transform lives. MKU is among the top 10 universities in research funding, and its research grants have grown from the internal Sh1 million to the current Sh700 million won nationally and internationally. Edited by Henry Makori