Julius Wambua, the man who says he was falsely accused and convicted of defiling his then 15-year-old daughter, has been freed on bail pending his retrial. Wambua was sentenced to life in jail on January 24, 2012, and has been at Kamiti Maximum Prison for nine years. But on Tuesday, the High Court in Machakos released him. Judge George Odunga released Wambua on Sh30,000 bail and ordered for his fresh trial. Wambua left Kamiti on Wednesday evening. The court heard that Wambua was framed by his ex-wife Jacqueline Nzilani. His reprieve came after his story was aired by Citizen TV in 2019, with his daughter Dorcas Mwende, the alleged victim, recanting her evidence. Mwende said she was coached by her mother to fix her father for personal gain. Tears of joy flowed freely as he hugged and reunited with his family members, including Mwende. Wambua thanked God for saving him from the miseries he’s been enduring behind bars and his daughter for testifying and laying bare the truth before the court leading to his release. "I feel like I’ve been born again or I’ve resurrected to a new life. I have gone through untold suffering behind prison walls while serving my sentence since I was convicted of a crime I did not commit. But I thank God for protecting me and seeing me out of the prison. He has saved me from hell,” Wambua said. "God has been faithful since the day I was escorted to cells by officers. I prayed that no evil happens to me while serving my sentence and that one day I would reunite with my children and he heard my prayers." He also expressed his gratitude to the media, especially Citizen TV, for airing his plight and bringing to the limelight his suffering in prison for a trumped-up felony. Wambua said he has reconciled with the fact that he was framed for a crime he was totally unaware of and has already forgiven everyone who took part in fixing and sending him to prison, including his ex-wife. “I know she (my ex-wife) is aware that I have finally left prison wherever she is. I have forgiven her because she is my wife and the mother of my children. I also want her to reach out to me and ask for forgiveness,” he said. He said that there are many other inmates who are suffering the same fate, serving sentences for crimes they did not commit. Wambua said that while in prison, he chose to pursue technical courses offered to inmates. He joined the leather section and managed to excel, getting Grade 1. “The worst thing to do while in prison is to remain idle because you will be recruited to all manners of evil by fellow inmates. So I decided to do something that can help me remain productive even behind the walls,” he said. Wambua is now appealing to well-wishers who can offer him a job in the leather industry to assist him so he can rebuild his life and take care of his family again. “Right now I have no place to live or sleep, no work to do and no clothes to change. I am only depending on God and people of goodwill to come to my aid,” he said. Wambua now faces a retrial and his case will be mentioned on December 21, 2020, at the Kithimani magistrate's court. 