The National Youth Service will start paying Sh15 billion it owes suppliers early next year. However, vouchers worth over Sh1 billion have been declared fake after verification by various government agencies. Public Service and Gender CS Margaret Kobia said on Thursday the pending bills were from 2013 to 2017 when the public institution was locked in scandals. She said when the scandals emerged, the government stopped any payments pending the verification of all the vouchers. The CS was non-committal on when the pending bills would be paid but assured all those who delivered that they would get what they were owed. “We have worked with the EACC, and we have verified that vouchers worth Sh15 billion are valid and we shall start paying,” she said. PS Mary Kimonye told those who had presented fake vouchers to collect them before the law caught up with them. “We have finished verifying the pending bills, and we have found out that Sh1 billion of the vouchers are fake and those involved wanted to fleece the government,” she said. Kimonye admitted that the pandemic had financially affected the institution following a drop in revenue but was optimistic that this would change in the coming days. NYS Director General Matilda Sakwa called for urgent disbursement of funds to run the institution, saying they are currently under-funded. “In this financial year, we have not been allocated any development funds, and this will affect operations in our 23 training units and 17 schools,” she said. They spoke at Gilgil NYS Training College when the institution reopened its doors to over 7,000 recruits. The institution has been closed because of Covid-19 containment measures. Kobia said all set health guidelines had been addressed. “All the recruits have been tested for Covid-19, and we did not have any positive cases and all the other NYS institutions have also reopened,” she said. As the 16-day activism against gender-based violence came to a close, the CS said cases of domestic violence had risen during the pandemic. She said poverty and loss of jobs had contributed to the rise in cases of GBV, with schoolgirls bearing the brunt. Edited by A.N