Disquiet is growing at a state corporation following reports that the managing director is considering rehiring a former employee who was sacked over poor performance. Interestingly, the MD was hired after his predecessor was sent packing for disregarding the corporation's code of conduct. Senior managers are worried that their boss seems to be taking the same HR road as the former MD by recruiting people without following procedure. The manager is said to have hinted that the fired employee - who is believed to be his close friend - would be back in no time. Staff have been left to wonder of what interest is his return to their boss. They are asking EACC boss Twalib Mbarak (pictured) to investigate. *** Just what has changed that a governor from western Kenya is no longer interested in having his deputy succeed him? The county boss who has openly been showering his deputy with praises and publicly saying he is the best person to steer the county when he exits has since changed and is now secretly rooting for area woman representative to be the next governor. The governor while presiding over a public function recently said he will support whoever wins the party ticket unlike before when he assured that he will do all he could to ensure his deputy gets nominated and then campaign for him to win the seat. *** The  marriage of a prominent Cabinet Secretary is facing turbulent headwinds following a tempestuous love affair with a diplomat. So passionate is their love that the CS is considering a formal marriage to the diplomat, who turns the eyes of men of means. The lovebirds have been meeting regularly at a popular hotel within Nairobi's Kilimani area where the sparks fly. The Kenyan diplomat is considering shelving her ambassadorial duties to attend to matters of the heart. Even old cats drink milk. *** A first-term governor is said to be having sleepless nights over the rising popularity and growing influence of his predecessor. The governor won the 2017 elections by a slight margin and has since fallen out with most of his supporters including members of his clan. Reports that his predecessor had confirmed to be in the race for the seat in 2022 sent chills down the spine of the county chief. His clan is said to be unhappy with him as they have remained in poverty even after their son ascended to power. The former governor on the other hand has been quite visible on the ground helping locals.