Embattled Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko’s job and political future hang in the balance as his impeachment trial starts in the Senate Wednesday. The county boss will face off with MCAs who voted to impeach him before all the 67 senators. He will defend himself against a barrage of allegations that may eject him from office and crush his political career. Sonko was impeached two weeks ago by the ward representatives who accused him of gross violation of the Constitution, abuse of office, gross misconduct and crimes under national law. Last evening, Sonko submitted his response to the Senate to discount the accusations as MCAs presented evidence to sustain his removal from office. Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka Tuesday gazetted two-day special plenary sittings, pending the legal and political battle that will end on Thursday evening with the governor’s fate being decided. As the trial begins, the Labour court will on Wednesday afternoon rule on whether it will stop the Senate from hearing the impeachment. Justice Nduma Nderi will give his ruling at 3pm, hours after the start of the hearings in the Senate. Sonko wants the court to stop his impeachment process. The county assembly has opposed his application and told the court to dismiss it with costs. Lawyer Milimo Muthoni for the county assembly told the court that Sonko still has a right to appear before the Senate and defend himself. “He was invited by the county assembly but failed to turn up and did not give an excuse to not turn up before the Senate,” Muthoni said. According to the schedule of events, the Senate plenary sitting begins at 9am with communication from the speaker on the death of Machakos Senator Boniface Kabaka. Thereafter, the House will go into a closed session with senators. At 11am, the open session will reconvene to proceed with the reading of charges against the governor and submissions from both parties. The parties will be accorded time for opening speeches before the county assembly, through their lead lawyer, make the case against the governor. During the four-hour submission, the county assembly, through lawyer Njeru Ndegwa, will present evidence and avail witnesses to anchor their case. The governor’s lawyers will also be accorded an opportunity to cross-examine the witnesses. The proceedings will resume at 9am on Thursday with the governor’s lawyers led by Cecil Miller, George Kithi and Harrison Kinyanjui taking the stand to refute the allegations. There shall be time for rebuttals from either party before the senators retreat to a closed session to debate the merits and demerits of the case. They will resume the session on camera to take a vote on the motion. Should at least 24 delegations (elected senators or their representatives) vote to uphold any of the charges, the governor shall stand impeached and county assembly speaker Benson Mutura installed as acting governor for 90 days pending a by-election. The MCAs accuse Sonko of presiding over ‘massive loss and theft’ of public funds amounting to Sh204.2 billion, bloating the county’s debt and crippling the operations of the Nairobi Metropolitan Services. “The governor’s continued willful refusal to execute the statutory warrants essential to the release of funds from the CRF, which has grounded the provision of services of not only the county executive but of the NMS and its exercise of the transferred functions,” the charges read. He is also accused of persistently harassing, intimidating and molesting county officers and using City Hall cash to fly his daughter to the County First Lady’s Conference in New York, USA. Meanwhile, Police IG Hillary Mutyambai has denied police are being used to harass Sonko. Mutyambai was scheduled to appear before the Senate Justice and Legal Affairs Committee chaired by Nyamira Senator Okong’o Mogeni, but skipped. Instead, he sent a written response to the panel. Mutyambai said City Hall has become an ‘area of interest because of many occurrences that may breach the peace and cause unnecessary fear’ around the place. “Nairobi city county offices have been targeted by striking health workers and other disgruntled county workers in the recent past. This resulted in the zone being considered an area of police interest, thereby occasioning regular police patrols in the area,” he said. There has been a heavy deployment of armed police officers in and outside City Hall. During the recent impeachment of Sonko by the county assembly, anti-riot police officers barricaded City Hall Way and surrounded the assembly precincts. At the height of leadership wrangles in the assembly mid this year, officers hurled tear-gas canisters and tortured MCAs. Days to his impeachment, armed anti-riot officers stormed the governor’s meeting with MCAs who were opposed to his removal at a private residence on Riverside Drive. The governor was briefly arrested by the officers. He was then released. The officers tear-gassed the governor, MCAs and journalists who were covering the event. The actions sparked outrage, with Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja petitioning the Senate to investigate the police actions. But Mutyambai said the wrangles that have been witnessed at the county headquarters threatened peace in the city, prompting the formation of a quick response unit to man the place. He also denied that the police arrested Sonko during his meeting with MCAs. Mutyambai said the officers only responded to a tip-off that the county boss and the ward reps were violating Covid-19 protocols. “The police did not respond with an intention to arrest the governor but to implement the Ministry of Health guidelines on Covid-19. Nobody was arrested during the incident. Police withdrew when the unlicensed meeting was dispersed,” he said.  