Kenya has decided to shelve the plan to restrict all flights from the UK over reports of a mutant Covid-19 strain. In his last address, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe had said that various state agencies were in discussion to reconsider a possible restriction of international flights in an effort to curb the situation. The government instead opted to issue stricter measures which will be applied to passengers jetting in from the UK instead of a total ban of flights. Already, Kenyan scientists have increased surveillance of the coronavirus after the new mutations were reported in South Africa and the UK. Reports indicate that the new strain has been detected in Nigeria, Italy, Germany, the Netherlands, and Australia. “We have very strict travel measures with the UK which the US and the Europeans did not have. We are carefully observing every passenger traveling from there,” Kagwe said on Tuesday. Kagwe said the country needed additional recommendations from other agencies such as the World Health Organisations (WHO) to be able to arrive at decisions such as banning flights. WHO had reported that the virus was mutating at a ‘much slower rate’ than seasonal influenza, but officials from the UK said the mutation of the virus was allowing it to spread more easily. So far, no mutated strain has been reported in Kenya but experts warned it could happen. “We will therefore make decisions based on scientific advice as well as any additional advice from the WHO. We are not part of the European Union,” Kagwe said. The ban could have caused a negative impact on Kenya Airways which operates direct flights to and from the Heathrow International Airport. The KQ which has been declaring losses relies on such routes with the hope of growing its revenue. The discovery of the new strain sowed new panic in a pandemic that has killed almost 1.7 million people worldwide, showing that the new variant could be up to 70 per cent more transmissible than the original strain of the virus. Initial reports indicated that the new strain spreads faster but does not appear to be deadlier than the original virus. It was not however immediately clear whether the rapid spread was due to mutation or people’s laxity in protecting themselves. “We have seen an estimate of a small increase in the reproductive number by the UK, which could mean the virus is more contagious or spreads more easily in colder months. It could also mean that people are getting lax about following public health protocols,” WHO health emergencies programme executive director Mike Ryan said. In June, Kenya Medical Research Institute released results of genome sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 revealing that nine lineages were circulating in Kenya, mainly from Europe. There was no significant mutation to account for a new strain in Kenya. A mutation is a change in the virus’ genome, the set of genetic instructions that contain all the information the virus needs to function. “The current mutation in the UK is not unusual because viruses are continually changing. We are monitoring people arriving from outside and sequencing our own strain to see if any mutation is more or less dangerous,” Prof Omu Anzala, a virologist, said. Although there is a rare chance a virus could mutate to become more aggressive, RNA viruses like SARS-CoV-2 are more likely to mutate into weaker versions.