The holiday season is here with us once again with Christmas and New Year right around the corner. This year has been an extraordinary year for the brand as it looks to rewarding you once you tell them a story that has made this year extra-ordinary for you or your loved one. This year, the company brought in their much awaited device of the year, the Camon 16 premier and 16s. The competition in the mobile phone industry has gotten much fiercer in recent years - users are no longer satisfied with just a sleek appearance. Photography is fast becoming the main differentiator between mobile phones. The best models in the market offer quality that can rival professional-grade cameras.  With the four models on review, it comes down to the multi-shot and AI camera modes. If you’re an avid photographer or are particular about your photos, TECNO’s model will not disappoint, regardless whether it’s the 48MP front cameras or the 64MP rear cameras. Its front camera has both a clear selfie lens as well as an 8MP ultra-wide-angle lens to capture group shots with ease. The AI modes such as the TAIVOS 2.0 are designed from the ground-up by TECNO, who recently also set the industry standards for mobile photography technology. Such advances in mobile photography are only made possible by the massive R&D efforts in processor chips, who shoulder much of the burden that affects image quality. Hence having the best chips will have a direct impact on the pictures we take every day. The CAMON 16 Premier won the "Camera Technology Innovation Smartphone Gold Award" for its outstanding camera functions at IFA – the world's largest and most influential home appliance and consumer electronics event. The event was held in Germany from 3rd to 5th September. This achievement reaffirms TECNO’s camera capabilities as a leader in the mobile phone industry. As a show of gratitude to its customers this year, the company will be offering its customers an array of amazing gifts to finish the year happily through the #TECNOTakeMeHome campaign. The campaign will start from December 1st to December 31st 2020. To take part in the campaign consumers will have to Purchase a Spark 5 Pro, CAMON 16 Premier, CAMON 16S or a CAMON 16  smartphone from physical shops around the country. They will then have an opportunity to win one of 3000 bus tickets and one of 1000 shopping vouchers up for grab for anyone buying Spark5 Pro or CAMON 16s2 or a chance to get one of 500 Special care packages for TECNO for CAMON 16 PREMIER buyers. The company will also find lucky online users and award them a care package during the campaign. all they have to do is share a story that has made this year extra-ordinary for you or your loved one using the hashtag #TECNOTakeMeHome.