Gender desks will from next week be revamped in all Migori police stations to tackle rising cases of gender-based violence, county commissioner Boaz Cherutich has said. Speaking in his office on Thursday, the administrator said they have ensured chiefs and village elders will be held accountable for delays in reporting cases. “We have tasked chiefs and village elders to ensure that gender-based violence cases, especially those against school children, are reported to police where gender desks will be revamped,” Cherutich said. He said a committee to fight female genital mutilation in Kuria had already been formed. Another from Judiciary through court users and the department of Health has also met to streamline how to deal with rising cases. “The Health department will be keen to ensure all tests and P3 forms are filled and the Judiciary will ensure victims and abusers get deserved justice. We will need a seamless system to tackle the matter,” he said. The administrator said the long closure of schools has led to increased cases of teen pregnancies and gender-based violence. He asked parents to ensure they were aware of what their children were doing at all times. “We have parents who refuse to report abuse on their children or neglect their duties, they will be charged alongside abusers especially when they seek out of court settlement on criminal charges and frustrate a judicial process,” he said. Cherutich said the FGM advisory committee in Migori has already met with 12 circumcisers from Mabera area. They aim was to sensitise people to drop the outlawed cut which is common during the December holidays. He cited an incident where activists led a citizen arrest of a 30-year-od man from Gwassi in Homa Bay county who tried to marry a 16-year-old girl after liaising with the minor's uncle. The girl is a Form 2 student. The plan to marry off the minor was unearthed when the uncle and the suspect took the girl to Rongo Subcounty Hospital for a HIV test. They were to ascertain their HIV status before they could settle in marriage. “The two came to check their HIV status at the hospital before the man could pick away his bride. We arrested all three of them,” activist Sophie Odumo said. The parents of the minor learned about the arrests and vanished.  Edited by P.O 