Thirty-five young athletes assembled in Kitale on Wednesday for an anti-doping and character development virtual seminar organised by Athletics Kenya in collaboration with Athletics Integrity Unit. The one-day session, officially opened by AK president Jackson Tuwei, enlightened participants on the dangers of doping. “Those athletes who competed in the 60s, 70s and 80s brought us much glory. Unfortunately, we started having problems in the 90s to date on matters doping. We feel that it’s important that the young athletes can listen to the lessons being provided to them and help us get out of these doping problems,” Tuwei said. Tuwei added that Kenya’s reputation as a giant in athletics depends on the young athletes who will be expected to maintain it by working hard and winning fairly. “You can compete and win clean without using a prohibited substance. You are the future of athletics in this country. Everyone in Kenya and the world is looking up to you,” Tuwei told the youngsters. The 35 are among 166 young runners — aged 20 years and under — who are attending a series of invite-only seminars meant to educate them professional athletes on the dos and don'ts both in and out of competition. The seminar, which runs from December 2-5 will feature 45 athletes in Eldoret (Thursday), 51 athletes in Kericho (Friday) and 35 athletes in Nairobi (Saturday). Barnaba Korir, AK Youth and Development Committee chair, said the federation wants to mould a new crop of athletes who will positively impact the society through their exploits on the tracks, fields and roads. "These athletes are very young and we thought it better to educate them on anti-doping at that age. We want to create morally upright athletes who do not engage in vices that raise eyebrows once they have fulfilled their potential," Korir said. He bemoaned the unbecoming trend of various Kenyan athletes engaging in wayward behaviour after gaining international recognition. "We want to pass the message that when you start performing well, it is not an excuse to relegate your behaviour. Being a champion comes with responsibility," Korir said. Korir expressed hope that the involvement of AIU in the seminar will awaken the youngsters to the gravity of doping and related violations. Aditya Kumar, AIU head of education and communication, encouraged the athletes in attendance to be good ambassadors of anti-doping by competing clean and winning fairly. "Always report malpractice in athletics in order to make athletics safe and honest sport. You will be breaking the rulings if you use prohibited substances. It’s also your duty to make yourself available for testing," Kumar said.