Just what will it take state agencies to reduce the costs of running offices and spending less on items like furniture? It appears Treasury CS Ukur Yatani (pictured) has a tough assignment in trying to cut state spending on luxury products. An institution in one of the arms of government is seemingly doing the exact opposite with its penchant for big spending. The agency bought seats for a restaurant at Sh45,000 apiece, leaving many wondering what is so special about the furniture, or its intended users. The expensive seats are barely used as the restaurant is still operating below capacity due to Covid-19. *** A flamboyant senator is in trouble following for philandering. The lawmaker is said to be cornered by his in-laws after his illicit liaison with a popular socialite blew up. Colleagues in the Senate say the first-term lawmaker is trying hard to live life in the fast lane. He's struggling to punch above his weight by keeping unscrupulous friends in a futile attempt to be relevant. Word has it that the high life has sent his marriage crashing onto the rocks, even as he keeps up a brave face in public despite the claims of cheating, fighting and drinking. *** The management of a hospital owned by a religious organisation may soon regret that it did not put its house in order. Reason? A little bird in the hospital in Nairobi county has whispered to Corridors of Power the management is playing cat-and-mouse games when it comes to paying salaries to staff owed close to Sh120 million. The employees, Corridors has been told, have almost completed their petition to the Senate to come to their rescue. It is said that every time employees demand the pay, the management tells them they are battling Covid-19. *** A budding Kalenjin gospel artist risks ruining his career and ministry due to his new lifestyle. The artist is in trouble following allegations that he is riding on the wave of his hit single to lure unsuspecting young gospel artists to his digs and force himself on them. He is said to be entrapping the young ladies by saying he will spur their careers marketwise and give them connections in both media and the corporate world. It emerges that four singers from South Rift have fallen prey. Appearing drunk with celebrity status, the artist rubbishes the accusations and says his numbers in social media keep swelling while his pockets balloon. It's a matter of time before the balloon is punctured  and he comes crashing down. 