To know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived, is one of the ways essayist Ralph Waldo Emerson defined success. And this definition is embodied by the pick for the Star Person of the Year 2020, who will be announced on Thursday. The spotlight will be shared by fellow nominees in a 13-person shortlist comprising healthcare workers, government officials, activists, lawyers, businesspersons and social change agents. The 13 are Leonard Otieno, a nurse in Siaya, Nurses President Alfred Obengo, Shofco CEO Kennedy Odede, Mngaro Mtaani founder Samuel Omollo, Grain Industries CEO Munir Thabit and Usikimye CEO Njeri Migwi. Others are Interface CBO spokesperson Evance Otieno, Advocate Ndegwa Njiru, Equity Bank CEO James Mwangi, Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe and Deputy President William Ruto. In their own ways, their endeavours have earned the respect of Kenyans, with 2,700 responding to a call for nominations last month. This marked a departure from tradition since 2018, when the awards started. From controlling the process, editors restricted themselves to the final say, with a committee vetting the most-voted for to come up with a shortlist. Committee member Oliver Mathenge, the Radio Africa digital editor, says democratising the process widened the net, giving unsung heroes a chance. “There are people who are doing a lot in the country but are probably media-shy and, therefore, not known by many. So it was important that we get the nominees from Kenyans as they know them best,” he said. Indeed, the editors were pleasantly surprised by some of the tales that emerged. Stories of selflessness in service to humanity. The determination against great odds. Innovation where hope was lost. And simply doing a job with such dedication and excellence that people take notice. “This is why the award was created. To let outstanding men and women know that their efforts are not in vain. They are appreciated,” said features editor Tom Jalio, who chaired the awards committee. Their tales will be told in a special edition of the Star, capturing their journeys and why readers felt they should be feted. Last year, the Star feted the following as persons of the year: Okiya Omtatah: From chaining himself to the doors of offices of corrupt public officials over a decade ago, Omtatah has morphed into public litigant number one. Global Teacher Prize winner Peter Tabichi and the brilliant legal mind that is Justice Mumbi Ngugi. CBK Governor Patrick Njoroge was behind a raft of financial reforms in 2019. He tweets and can be outspoken about the government’s ballooning debt. The Star also honoured marathoner Eliud Kichoge, the GOAT (greatest of all time), as a true sports legend. The list also included rapper Khaligraph Jones, ICT innovators The Restorers and HIV researcher Benson Edagwa.