Hardworking, effective cops in high-risk, banditry areas deserve promotion and motivation, MPs have said. That means better pay, hazard allowances and bonuses. MP Paul Koinange, chairman of Parliament's Security committee, on Friday praised officers for fighting cattle rustling and other crimes during a visit to Baringo county. “The officers working in hardship and operation areas in this country are really doing commendable job they need to be promoted and motivated," the Kiambaa MP said. He cited the officers pursuing bandits in volatile areas like North Rift. A number of police officers have been attacked and killed in the line of duty. He was addressing media on an inspection tour of working conditions, including those of older officers. MPs also inspected police stations.  Homa Bay MP Peter Kaluma pledged to push for legislation to help police and recommend budgeting in Parliament to reward, motivate and promote good officers. “We must renovate and modernise all the old police stations countrywide," Koinange said. All stations should have standard cells and separate men, women and juveniles, the committee members said. Koinange said they found most police stations have never been renovated or painted since they were constructed long ago. Dilapidated stations look very bad, he said. The chairman condemned banditry and cattle rustling in parts of Baringo. “It is very painful and sad noting at this day and age someone still raises a firearm to kill a neighbour because of a cow, goat or a sheep,” Kaluma said. He said it is time people lived in peace, took their children to school and improved the economy. The MP called on both political leaders and security agencies to work together. Present were the Independent Policing Oversight Authority (Ipoa) vice chairman Jonathan Lotumpui, Teso North MP Oku Kaunya, Balambala MP Abdi Shurie, Baringo police commander Robinson Ndiwa and county commissioner Henry Wafula. The MPs praised leaders and security teams. (Edited by V. Graham)