Ushuru head coach James ‘Odijo’ Omondi has appealed to Football Kenya Federation to consider opening a two-week transfer window for his players after the club went under. Ushuru players were served with a shock early this week after the club folded, leaving them stranded and desperate with transfer window is already closed. The outfit, which was formed in 2005, has been plying their trade in the National Super League following their relegation from the top tier in 2016 but staged a no show when the 2020-2021 campaign kicked off last weekend. The tax-men, who lost three quarters of their last season’s squad due to lack of money, were scheduled to open their season against Migori Youth but failed to show. Upon realising the future of the outfit was in doubt, the federation promoted Division One playoff losers Mully Children’s Family FC to take up their slot. Odijo is now calling on FKF to open a window for the 14 remaining Ushuru players to secure employment elsewhere. “It’s sad the club went under despite being backed by a state agency. I have 14 players at my disposal who are stranded and desperate to play football at the competitive level. FKF had initially opened a window for players drawn from Mathare United and Zoo Kericho and I urge them to consider allowing these players to sign elsewhere in the next two weeks,” said the former Muhoroni Youth gaffer Odijo was at pains to express his disappointment after preparing the team during the pre-season only for it to be disbanded. Earlier, Ushuru bosses acknowledged that the team was being starved of cash due to the economy effects brought by covid-19. “ I regret I wasted more than five months preparing the team for the new season only to be abandoned at the eleventh hour. It is painful I can not help the players whom I had assembled play in the league thus I plead with Kandanda House to assist them,” he lamented Despite severing ties with their sponsors Kenya Revenue Authority, Odijo called on the agency to clear the accumulated players five -month salaries for their survival. 