Catholic bishops on Wednesday called for further discussions on contentious BBI proposals even as they backed the planned referendum to amend the Constitution. The clerics said some of the contentious clauses in the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill 2020, should be shelved. And while they said they are opposed to some clauses, the clerics described the Building Bridges Initiative as “our baby” saying they actively participated in the process and cannot oppose it. “We propose a continued focus on consensus building to bring everyone on board. This is important as citizens of one country who want to approach the referendum united and soberly even though we might have different positions,” the bishops said in a statement read by Kisumu Archbishop Philip Anyolo. Anyolo is the chairman of the Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops. The statement was signed by all the 24 bishops including John Cardinal Njue, archbishops Antony Muheria of Nyeri, Dominic Kimengich of Eldoret and Martin Kivuva of Mombasa. “The BBI is our baby as some of us participated in the process and even gave views,” Kivuva said. They spoke after a meeting in Karen, Nairobi. The bishops said the BBI broadly addresses nine issues but only two – the expanded Legislature and Executive – are dominating the national discourse. They said the referendum process must not be stopped. The clerics however called for civic education, saying many Kenyans may not understand the proposals which will be debated by county assemblies. “The referendum outcome is too important for the future of our country. Consequently, every Kenyan needs to be well aware of the contents of the amendment bill so as to make an informed decision at the ballot,” Anyolo said. They called for peace during the referendum campaigns saying the church will be carefully watching. “We want to categorically state that the church will not be a spectator if peace is disturbed during the referendum and general election campaigns,” they said. The clerics asked the government and striking medics to discuss and agree on a way forward. They said medics must at all times aim to save lives and patients must always be at the centre of their profession. “The tension between the government and the doctors will not be resolved through arm-twisting from both parties. There is a need for constructive dialogue.” The bishops also appealed for state support to parents when schools reopen next month saying job losses during the Covid-19 pandemic have led to higher poverty levels. “There are many parents who, as a matter of fact, will not be able to raise school fees for their children.” “While we truly appreciate that educating a child is primarily the responsibility of a parent, we cannot overlook the conditions in which some parents find themselves for reasons beyond their control.”