Aspirants in Kuppet elections on Tuesday accused incumbents of trying to block them running in internal polls on January 22. The deadline to submit nomination papers is Wednesday. They said no one was present to receive the papers and forward them to the head office for election planning. They alleged their incumbent opponents were scheming to remain in power using improper methods. The Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers is expected to hold national elections in January and campaigning is fierce. On Tuesday, eight teachers running for election alleged current office holders are trying to keep them from running. They include chairman candidate John Owino, Tom Odhiambo (executive secretary), Churchill Aroko (assistant executive secretary), Edwin Achola (organising secretary) and Felix Oduor (assistant treasurer). “We went back home without presenting nomination papers last Friday because nobody received us in the office. On Monday the executive secretary was not in the office to receive the papers,” Owino said. The eight members said they were unable to submit their nomination papers on Tuesday morning after branch executive secretary Stephen Yogo failed to show up to receive them. Speaking to journalists in Homa Bay town, Owino alleged a scheme to block them from being registered in the final list of candidates. “The current serving executive secretary should receive nominations papers, process them and hand them to head office,” Owino said. Odhiambo accused Yogo and other incumbents of failing to address teachers' problems, including promotions and health cover. Yogo dismissed the claims saying they have a receptionist at the Homa Bay office who receives letters when they are not around. He said the forthcoming election will be conducted by an independent body and supervised by the head office. “I have been absent from the office for distribution of election papers across the county. They refused to leave their nomination papers with the receptionist,” Yogo said. He said the group was making false accusations and told them to stop sensationalist campaigns. The team walked to the Homa Bay Labour offices to present their grievances but failed to see anyone. Edited by Kiilu Damaris