Nyamira governor John Nyagarama will be accorded a state funeral. A statement from the Interior Ministry on Friday indicated that the late governor who until his demise was serving as the Governor for Nyamira County hence will be accorded a state funeral. According to the statement, leaders from the Gusii community met earlier in the day to deliberate over the burial plans where they resolved to form an Ad-hoc Committee that will steer the programme in liaison with his family. "The leaders unanimously designated Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i, and Kisii County Governor  James Ongwae, as the co-chairpersons of the committee," the statement said. Senator Okong’o O’Mogeni and MP for North Mugirango  Joash Nyamoko will be vice-chairpersons, while Nyamira County Women Representative Jerusha Momanyi will serve as the Treasurer. NACADA CEO, Victor Okioma will be the Secretary, with Maj. Jeremiah Nyakundi, Legal Advisor in the Ministry of Interior set to be his assistant. "The committee will co-opt all legislators from the counties of Nyamira and Kisii with a view to keeping wananchi informed on the burial plans," the statement read in part. Solicitor General, Kennedy Ogeto, will oversee the mobilization and coordination of professionals and scholars from Gusiiland. More details on the final rites will be communicated to the public in due course. Nyagarama died at the Nairobi Hospital due to Covid-19 complications. He was put on life support on Sunday night and his family was called in on Monday after his condition deteriorated. Nyangarama, 74, was taken to the hospital three weeks ago when he tested positive for coronavirus. He was immediately admitted to the Covid-19 ICU “as he required a lot of oxygen”. “He was a patient on increased oxygen demand. He stayed in the Covid-19 ICU under the care of doctors and nurses who are dealing with the coronavirus cases,” a source familiar with the governor’s treatment said. After 21 days of being managed by medics, a final test was done on him last week. It came out negative. Doctors reportedly recommended that Nyagarama be transferred to the normal ICU to proceed with close medical monitoring as his lungs had suffered "multiple failures". The second-term governor and former long-serving Kenya Tea Development Authority director is among many other leaders who have contracted coronavirus and ended up in hospital.