Squatters in Lamu county want the National Land Commission to conduct fresh audits for all ranches in the region with a view to resettling them. Areas with the highest squatter population in Lamu are Hindi, Mkunumbi, Koreni, Mapenya, parts of Mpeketoni, Kibaoni and Witu. The squatters are accusing ranch owners of irregularly acquiring large tracts of land in the region and thus compounding their woes. Many have ended up as squatters after their lands were grabbed by tycoons working in cahoots with dubious officials in the lands offices. Land remains a thorny matter in Lamu, with many of parcels still classified as public. This makes it easy for grabbers to have their way. In 2015, the national government revoked the ownership of 350,000 acres, mostly ranches, in Lamu after it was established they were irregularly acquired. The land was handed over to the county government for administration. Although the plan was to resettle squatters, it is suspected the revoked parcels were secretly handed back to their owners. The squatters are now demanding a fresh audit to allow for their resettlement as had been earlier planned. Their spokesperson Mohamed Shifu, the squatters observed that many of the ranches are large tracts of land lying idle for decades while they continue to wallow in landlessness. “If an audit is conducted, the truth about ownership will be revealed and we believe that way, squatters will also be resettled." "Lamu does not deserve to have squatters because there is so much idle land but because of corruption, we now find ourselves living like this,” Shifu said. The squatters also want the NLC to come clean on the status of the 350,000 acres revoked by the government in 2015. “The only truth we know is that the parcels were revoked. Other than that, we only hear rumours that they were re-possessed secretly by the owners. If this is true, we want to know the position of the NLC on this matter. Were they lying when they said they would resettle squatters on the land?” Shifu posed. 