A church service at the Christ the King Catholic church turned chaotic after the FordKenya rivalry dominated the service. This happened during a fund drive that had been presided over by Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula, his Vihiga counterpart George Khaniri, and the Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka. Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala, Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati, and Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyi were also present. Malala started by accusing Wamunyinyi and Wangamati of being the greatest impediment to the Luhya unity, a comment that did not augur well with the two leaders. " The greatest impediment to Luhya unity is our Luhya brothers Wamunyinyi and Wangamati who are seated here with us," Malala said. "Wetangula, your problem is seated next to you (Wamunyinyi). Wetangula, your problem is Governor Wangamati, who is here with you." He further asked the two to stop disturbing Wetangula over the Ford Kenya leadership. Malala said that the only leaders who should decide the way among Luhyas were Wetangula and Musalia. “Wamunyinyi you cannot fight to be party leader so that you become Kanduyi MP, that is wasting our time." Wamunyinyi, who appeared to be irritated by Malala stood before the church and attempted to engage with Malala before being stopped by Father Wanyonyi, who ended the mass. Immediately after the mass service, Wamunyinyi and Wangamati went to the church gate and blocked the gate, saying that they will not allow Malala out because he had attacked them. The youths accompanied Wangamati and Wamunyinyi started throwing stones towards the church. The other group allied to Wetangula retreated by throwing stones towards the direction where Wangamati and Wamunyinyi had blocked the church gate. The calm was restored by the police officers who arrived later. No arrest was made as youths from both sides scampered in different directions as police officers arrived. The busy Mumias road was inaccessible for about thirty minutes as people scampered for safety. Wetangula later moved in town with crowds of youths chanting his praises and castigating Wamunyinyi and Wangamati. Speaking to the Star after the chaos, Malala criticised Wangamati and Wamunyinyi for using the youths to cause disruption. "It is unfortunate that elected leaders can be the ones throwing stones to the church and causing chaos." Malala says he does not regret his sentiments. adding that some of the outsiders are using Wangamati and Wamunyinyi to scuttle the Luhya unity.