Deputy President William Ruto has asked the Ministry of Health, County governments and the health workers' unions to find an amicable solution to the ongoing strike. Speaking on Wednesday, he said the industrial action was threatening the lives of millions of Kenyans, especially during this coronavirus era. The Deputy President said engaging in shouting matches among the concerned parties was not only unhealthy but also dangerous for the nation. “The challenge that we now have is the shouting matches among the ministry of health, county governments and the health workers unions. This is unhealthy and dangerous for our nation,” Ruto said. Addressing leaders from Webuye East, Bungoma County, at his Sugoi home in Uasin Gishu County, on Wednesday, Ruto said a platform for negotiation should be embraced to ensure Kenyan lives and those of health workers are not endangered. “We must protect the lives of nurses, doctors and Kenyans should be protected. This is why we must have a mechanism to ensure no side loses in this matter,” he said. He added, “The ministry of health, county governments, doctors and nurses should find a commonality to agree on how to manage the situation so as not to get out of control.” At the same time, Ruto said failure by some leaders to concede defeat, was to blame for chaotic situations witnessed after every general election in the country. “If leaders could accept defeat after every election, there could be no chaotic situations in this country,” he said. He also pointed out that the problems facing the country were largely because of poor leadership, noting that leaders were focused on issues beneficial to them at the expense of service delivery. “Leaders should focus on addressing challenges facing majority of Kenyans above their own selfish gains if we are to reduce poverty and unemployment among Kenyans,” he said. Ruto said more focus should have been given to the Big Four agenda that intends to provide more than 500,000 jobs to Kenyans, other than the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) that aims to create positions for some a few individuals. The deputy president added that the Jubilee administration had progressed on well in the initiation of development projects. He said when Jubilee took over in 2013, two million Kenyans were connected to electricity but seven years later, more than six million people are connected to power. “We have achieved a lot in terms of development,” Ruto added. MPs Didmus Barasa (Kimilili) and John Waluke (Sirisia), urged the Luhya community to support Ruto for presidency in 2022. “The Luhya community will greatly benefit from the leadership of Dr Ruto in 2022 because his development track record is clear,” Waluke said. Barasa dismissed calls by former Prime Minister Raila Odinga on IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati to resign. “Raila should leave alone the work of Chebukati so that he can continue doing the work that Kenyans gave him,” Barasa said.