North Rift governors are grappling a teen crisis of high rates of HIV infections, pregnancies, early marriages and school dropouts. NHIF chief executive officer Peter Kamunyo, who was in Eldoret for World Aids Day, expressed alarm over the crisis, saying Universal Health Coverage should help all vulnerable Kenyans. Governor Alex Tolgos of Elgeyo Marakwet, Uasin Gishu Deputy Daniel Chemno and Health executive Evelyne Rotich said the youth crisis was a major concern. They addressed separate events. The eight North Rift counties are helping more than 20,000 pregnant girls and at-risk girls. Many fell pregnant while schools were closed in March due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Uasin Gishu Health executive Evelyne Rotich said awareness programmes aim to help the girls whose lives may be ruined if they are not supported. She said women and girls in most of the country are vulnerable and most affected by HIV. “High teen pregnancies mean many girls have also been exposed to HIV," she said. Parents and other stakeholders must urgently address the problem, she said. Kamunyo said the government has set aside Sh6 million for NHIF cover for very poor Kenyans. He said services have been expanded to cover all kinds of illnesses, including Covid-19. He said as with HIV-Aids, there was stigma initially in offering health insurance but NHIF is providing packages to cover Covid-19. The vision is for UHC under which all Kenyans will have access to health insurance, regardless of their status or financial well-being. Uasin Gishu Deputy Governor Chemno said the county notes the impact of health problems on the economy. "Health takes more than 50 per cent of family budgets, so we insist on the public taking NHIF cover." He asked NHIF to work with the county and reach out to economic clusterssuch as boda boda and matatu operators as well as traders in Saccos. All have been registered so it is easier for NHIF to reach households through these business units," Chemno said. For Sh17 daily or Sh500 monthly, one can afford NHIF for themselves and the same for each family member, making it the most affordable and accessible health insurance. Chemno said. In Elgeyo Marakwet, Tolgos said the HIV-Aids prevalence is 2.6 per cent and 6,335 people live with the virus. Of those, 3,810 are on Anti-Retroviral Treatment. He said the county and stakeholders were increasing identification of  people living with the disease through testing. They are counselled and put on ARV therapy “We also need to prevent those who are negative from being infected by providing more information and preventive measures," Chemno said. These include proper condom use, provision of pre- and post-exposure prophylaxis, prevention of mother-to-child transmission and good adherence to drug therapy. (Edited by V. Graham)