Narok Senator Ledama Olekina's latest moves have raised speculations he could be plotting an exit out of Raila Odinga's ODM party. Olekina on Thursday went against ODM senators and voted against Mike Sonko's impeachment motion as Nairobi governor. He also defied ODM p and joined a more than a dozen of others in opposing the handshake backed counties allocation of revenue formula. Olekina was part of a group of senators christened Team Kenya that largely comprised of allies of Deputy President William Ruto. The team included senators from less populated counties that feared losing out in the contested revenue formula. Following the Msambweni by-election in which his ODM lost to Ruto's  Faisal Bader, an independent candidate, Olekina sent out a tweet that appeared to taunt the loser. “In a level playing field The People United shall never be defeated,” Olekina tweeted on December 15 . The message resonated with many of other sent out by Ruto's allies following the victory. He, however, told the Star that his support for Sonko was based on his conviction that the charges against him were not substantiated. “I supported Sonko because the process was flawed and the procedure cannot even stand before a court of law,” he said. Olekina accused his colleagues of “following blindly” to impeach Sonko. “The vote was not on merit. Some people were even reading, they were getting instructions from somewhere,” he argued. He, however, admitted that he has on some ocassions gone against the party position to protect what he believes in and not just become a “blind follower.' “My loyalty is with Raila. When we differ in opinion, that doesn't mean disrespecting him. We agree to disagree,” he said. The lawmaker mainatained he is not on his way out of ODM, saying he will not afford to sacrifice his conscience on the alter of loyalty. “I don't need a godfather. My political godfathers are my electorate who elected me,” he said. His differences with ODM could have started in May following a vicious battle over a key Senate committee membership. This was after he went against the party position and was elected the Public Accounts and Investments Committee chairman despite ODM favouring Kisii Senator Sam Ongeri. ODM was forced to write to Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka seeking to recall Olekina  from all House committees. Olekina sued ODM. He later in July a delegation of Maasai leaders to  meet Raila at his Capitol Hill office in what was seen as bonding session. Raila later instructed his party whip to reinstate Olekina as a member of the PIAC panel. But on December 8, Olekina warned Raila's camp, saying the ODM leader would be in for a "rude shock" in 2022 because Kikuyus will betray him. "In 2022 Kenyans should vote for ideas not money. There is one guy who said you can rent a Kikuyu but you cannot buy this BBI thing...but they will never ever support Raila Odinga," he told a local media house. 