The BBI secretariat said on Monday that it had collected 1.5 million signatures in preparation for a referendum. The team is targeting four million signatures by Thursday when the exercise is expected to end. However, as the collection exercise continues, the DP maintains that a non-contested referendum is possible. On Tuesday, the DP attended the burial ceremony of Edith Wanjiku Ngunjiri, the mother of Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri. He was accompanied by several legislators including Senators and MPs allied to him. Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui was also present and was the only politician who drummed up support for the BBI Bill 2020, saying that Nakuru is among the counties that will hugely benefit from it once it's successful. The governor said that BBI will expand the Executive if it sails through, and that being the a county with a high population in the country, Nakuru residents will not just be spectators. “I want to urge you, Your Excellency, even as our sisters and our brothers here oppose BBI, my prayer is that when the time comes, remember Nakuru,” the governor said. The governor said that the bill will ensure that everyone is part and parcel of the government. He said that the issues of politics in the BBI will be solved as the exercise moves on, but asked residents to append their signatures to the report. “On the issues of politics, we will be able to solve them as we move forward but I believe that BBI will help us to build Nakuru and to build our country.” The governor invited the DP to make his remarks, saying that a non-contestant referendum is possible. “It is possible for all of us to agree if we can accept to accommodate one another. We must not have winners and losers. We fashion a win-win. And it's possible,” Ruto said. “I have heard the governor saying that there are people who are against the Constitution. No one is against it, just relax. We want all people to agree on all issues, which is possible. Let us not isolate others for having different views on this.” Ruto said that there are certain people in the BBI team who are eagerly finding ways to separate others, to have different groups with different views. “As democrats, we will agree that a good idea can give way to a better idea and we can all move together.” Ruto said that he has varying opinions with the president, but there is more that unites them compared to the things that separate them.