 A man suspected to have been illegally operating as an advocate of the high court without a practising certificate will be remanded at Jogoo police station for seven days pending investigations. David Kamau Ngata was arraigned on Friday before Makadara principal magistrate Stephen Jalang’o but he did not take plea as officers sought 21 days custodial orders to detain the suspect pending investigations On December, 10, officers disguised as clients were served by the suspect upon which they paid a service fee of Sh 5000. Later in the day, they impounded the office and Kamau was arrested while in the process of offering services as a commissioner of oaths and advocate of the High court. At the time of arrest, the suspect did not have any identification document. In an affidavit filed before the court, Inspector Peter Kanagi attached to legal unit Vigilance police headquarters told the court that he’s investigating a case of an unqualified person not to act as an advocate contrary to section 32 of advocate Act. Kanagi said that Kamau has been operating a firm in Thika town at Victory Plaza Thika 3rd floor room 310 by the name of D.N Kamau & Company Advocates. A preliminary investigation showed that the matter was complex after it emerged that the suspect had represented clients in various courts that with some cases being dropped after he was established to be unqualified. “There is need to detain the suspect for 21 more days, we fear that if freed he might interfere with the prosecution witnesses,” he said. This was however objected by his lawyer Elijah Ndemo. Ndemo said that it was clear that the investigations were almost over and further detention of his client for 21 days would be against his constitutional rights. “Your honour I pray that you consider the fact that my client is diabetic and remanding him will be unfair as he is at high risk of contracting covid-19, his place of abode is known and we wish to state that we shall comply with the court directions at all time,” Ndemo said. Jalang’o granted a seven days order and said that the only valid need of detaining the suspect is for the establishment of his true identity.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris