Roots Party of Kenya aspirant for the Matungu by-election Noah Shiunzi on Friday expressed confidence that he will emerge the winner. Speaking in Nairobi after he was given the green light to fly the party’s flag, Shiunzi said he is ready to face off with big boys being sponsored by the political bigwigs. ODM leader Raila Odinga, Deputy President William Ruto's Tangatanga faction and the Jubilee Party have all indicated that they will field candidates. Roots was founded by former presidential candidate George Wajackoyah. Shiunzi said he has what it takes to succeed Justus Murunga who passed away last month after a short illness. "I have my manifesto and I have already rolled out my campaigns. I had already started my campaigns since I was to challenge Murunga in 2022,” he said. Should he be elected, Shiunzi said he will prioritise education and empowerment of the youth and women. He said with the collapse of Mumias Sugar Company, which was the main source of employment in the Kakamega county, he will work round the clock to create jobs for the youth. "Literacy levels in the constituency have dropped over the years and therefore I intend to rally the community on that. We are also facing the challenge of early marriages, which I will address,” the trained teacher said. The by-election has been set for March 4 next year. Shiunzi called on the residents not to accept to be bribed “by individuals who after winning will no longer care for them”. “The people of Matungu need a leader who will improve their lives. That is why I have offered my candidature because I am determined and I have the vision to change Matungu for better,” he said. "I am ready to face my competitors whether I have money or not. Leadership is about what you plan to do for the people and not how deep your pocket is.” Roots Party of Kenya head of logistics Paul Omole said they settled on Shiunzi because of his vision for residents. “Roots Party of Kenya stands for justice and democracy. Shiunzi has proved that he is that man who is ready to empower the people, hence we have given him the certificate. This is a young man who is a teacher by profession and we have confidence that he will win. He is the best candidate,” Omole said. 