He breathes and bleeds athletics; his life and athletics have been intertwined ever since he could walk on both feet. What started out as his means of transport to and from school turned out to be the source of his legendary status in Kenyan athletics. As Kenyan athletics turned 70 this week, head coach Julius Kirwa sat down to reflect on the over three decades that he has spent in the sport. He has been the mainstay of the country’s athletics prowess having overseen most athletes successes at international level. As a young boy in primary school, Kirwa often had to run 30kms per day from home to school to avoid running afoul of school rules concerning timekeeping. “Our school was close to 10kms away from our home. My schoolmates and I had to run all the time; in the morning, at lunchtime and in the evening,” Kirwa says. It was not long before this act of necessity morphed into a talent, which pushed him into the limelight. During primary school games, he was one of the star performers in the 800m category. By the time he was transitioning to high school, Kirwa had fully embraced athletics as his calling. Nonetheless, he never thought he would have to immerse himself fully in the sport - at least until he had finished his secondary education. In 1976, while in Form three, his exploits on the track caught the eyes of military recruiters who informed him to immediately report to the then Armed Forces Training College in Nakuru. “In that race, I had run so fast and left my closest opponents far. I even had the luxury of looking behind to see how far they were. I was the first in the whole district,” Kirwa says. This marked the next chapter in his athletics career, which would entail forging raw talents into polished gems. Road to coaching At Armed Forces Training College in Nakuru, Kirwa’s profile as a budding runner continued to soar as he won more races within the defence forces. He counts himself lucky for having interacted with some of the pioneers of Kenyan athletics who motivated him to push on with his career. “In the military, I met Charles Asati and John Mayaka who was the first Kenyan to represent the country in javelin. I used to stay with Asati and he was among those who mentored me as I was preparing to participate in the East Africa Military games,” he says. His first steps in coaching began in 1981 with a two-month military course as a physical training instructor for which he did an advanced course four months later due to his exceptional performance. On both occasions, he had to return to his station at the Lang’ata Barracks from where he was still engaged in running. However, in 1982, he returned to AFTC - this time not as an understudy but a training instructor. He was tasked with the burden of training many upcoming athletes some of whom would later on reach international stardom. “Everyone who has been in the military passed through my hands like Paul Tergat and Moses Kiptanui. I am very happy that most of them have become leaders in the sport,” Kirwa says. His stint at AFTC also afforded him opportunities to perfect his coaching skills via various short-term courses. One of these was a Level 3 coaching course by the then Kenya Amateur Athletics Association  for which he did an advanced Level 2 coaching course. He also sat for and passed a Level 2 training course offered by the then International Amateur Athletics Federation at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. “It was decided that since I had amassed some experience as an athletics coach, there was no need to undertake a Level 1 training. Therefore, I proceeded straight to Level 2,” he says. He also went for advanced military training at  Alderson Training Camp in the United Kingdom for six months before he returned home. By 1988, he had ascended to the position of the military’s athletics head coach. With the kind of performances that the defence forces were churning out during national championships, it was only a matter of time before Athletics Kenya were throwing flirtatious glances towards him. “The then head coach Mike Kosgei requested for the recruitment of a coach from the military because our athletes were always performing well. That is how in 2002, I was seconded to be his assistant at AK. The rest is history,” Kirwa says. Coaching style Kirwa describes himself as a patient man who is always determined to win over the minds of his athletes by convincing them of the importance of his methods. “When an athlete refuses to do something, you try to understand the reasons for his or her refusal. I must win over your mind and to do so I must first understand the athlete,” he says. His coaching style can be described as holistic because he believes an athlete's performance is not only influenced by their physical condition or skills but also the other aspects of their lives. "I always try to find out how the athletes are faring back at home. It may be that an athlete is experiencing family problems, which is affecting the performance. When this is the case, it is my duty to advise them on the way forward," he says. Kirwa admits that his training methods do not always go down well with some athletes who feel he is pushing them too close to the edge.  However, this is borne out of his determination for positive results for his athletes at the international stage. “When my athletes in the camp have run 1:45 and yet there is an international opponent who has run 1:43, I cannot sleep. It becomes necessary to push the limits in training so that these athletes can reach or even surpass the running times of their opponents,” he says. Before embarking on training for major assignments, Kirwa assembles his charges to lay out a training plan in light of the task ahead. "One thing I always emphasise to the athletes is that we are going to war and we have to be in a better shape than our opponents. So when we start training, there's no reason for negative energy. We are not going there to be spectators but to be contenders," Kirwa says. Among the athletes he has tutored, he rates 800m world record holder David Rudisha as one of his best students due to his work ethic.  "He is a quick learner who is always willing to follow instructions to the letter. His discipline is perfect," he says. He fondly remembers the hard work Rudisha put into training for the 2012 London Olympics at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani. "I told him that I wanted to test his strength, endurance and speed by running 300m. We did this twice at which point he was tired. However, he summoned all the energy to run the third time in under 46 seconds," Kirwa narrates of that rainy day in Kasarani. Rudisha would later etch himself in history books as the first man to run 800m under 1:41 on his way to a gold medal at the London Olympics. The death of two-time 400m hurdles African Championship bronze medallist Nicholas Bett still hurts him to this day considering the bright future the 28-year old had. "A few days earlier we had just arrived from Asaba (Nigeria) for the African Championships and everyone was in an upbeat mood. I was very devastated to hear of his death a few days later in that cruel manner," he says. Kirwa is an avid darts and volleyball player and indulges in both in his free time. "Volleyball frees your mind and helps you to ease off stress. I always feel great after a game of volleyball," he says. At heart, he is still a running schoolboy albeit these days he runs not as a necessity but a hobby and a way to keep fit. None of his children have inherited his athletics genes and Kirwa is more than happy to let them make their own career choices. "They don't like athletics like I do so I just go along with what they want to do in their lives. Maybe one of my grandchildren will take up athletics," he says with a smile. A forward thinker, Kirwa has already prepared an elaborate training plan for Team Kenya ahead of the rescheduled Tokyo 2020 Olympics and forwarded it to his seniors for action. Due to the abundance of talent among his athletes and his long experience in the sport, he is not worried about the increasing threat of Ugandan athletes in the long-distance races. "I have already put everything in place and I believe our athletes will be in top condition when the Olympics come. So Kenyans have nothing to worry about. Everything will be okay," he says. That many world beaters from Kenya attribute their successes to his training is enough reason for Kenyans to find assurance in these words. Hopefully, his acumen can contribute to more great sporting moments in Kenyan athletics and consequently, unearth another coach in his mould who can prolong these years of success.