Gospel singer Size 8 says she almost lost her scholarship at the Hillcrest School after she turned out to be a party girl. Speaking to Churchill Show's 'Journey series', Size 8 said she was a very brilliant student and got a scholarship to State House Girls before moving to Hillcrest due to her performance in the arts. "At Hillcrest, I got the biggest shock of my life as I used a matatu to go to school while some students used choppers." The mother of two recounted how her self-esteem went down and for a whole term, she could not answer a question in front of other students. "I felt very inferior as I could not speak good English and even expressing myself was a problem. I was very bright and even the teachers noticed my performance was good." After several teachers spoke to her and encouraged her to be aggressive, Size 8 finally managed to be the loudest and was loved by most of her friends in school. "I knew how to dance and so my friends started inviting me to parties to make it lively. I became so popular in school and started going out to have fun." Size 8 admitted to having partied in most of the party joints in Nairobi, and her performance in school started dropping. "I almost lost my scholarship as my grades started going down. By the time I was leaving Hillcrest, I was a bad girl and left my innocence at the school. Yani niliacha Yesu shule." She managed to scoop good grades and was again called to a good school, but her parents could not afford to pay her university fees. "I was to attend Manchester University but we did not have money for my fees and my father told me my brothers were also in school." Size 8 later joined the secular industry and started hustling until 2013, when she quit the secular world and got saved. She said that although she was making money, she was not happy and at some point fell into depression. 'Mateke' was her first release after turning to gospel. "I was so excited and I didn't think anyone would notice it. It was trending everywhere with people having their own opinions, and that broke my heart," she said. "I got so much hate on social media and that is when people started judging me and expecting me to backslide. Some even gave me hours." She celebrated seven years in salvation this year. Edited by  T Jalio