Hundreds of patients were turned away from public hospitals for the third day on Wednesday in the North Rift as the strike by medical workers paralysed services. Nurses, clinical officers and others are on strike. Doctors have said they will join them next week. Hospitals in some counties including Uasin Gishu, Trans Nzoia and Nandi were deserted. A few support staff including security men kept on turning away patients at the gates. Simon Kibii of the Nurses Union in Uasin Gishu said medical workers have the right to picket and demand their rights to be able to work effectively. "We have for a long time asked counties to address the plight of health workers but we have been ignored since devolution took off," Kibii said. They are demanding health insurance, PPE and other Covid-19 supplies, promotions, job designations, creation of a Health Service Commission. They also want back pay and salary increases. Kibii said most of their members in the region were on strike. He said Covid-19 was the greatest risk to the lives of health workers and other Kenyans, hence, the government must quickly fulfill their demands. "If the government cares about the lives of Kenyans, then let it give us what we need to better protect ourselves and serve others during th pandemic," he said The issue of health insurance has been outstanding for years and must be addressed before they resume work, Kibii said. Journalists were barred from Uasin Gishu County Hospital by security men who said they were following orders from Health executive Everlyn Rotich. She could not be reached for comment. Rotich and senior health staff were in crisis meetings to decide how to handle emergencies during the strike. At Kapsabet County Referral Hospital, many patients who turned up for health services said they had been ignored, forcing them to seek help elsewhere. Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos urged all health workers to resume work while their demands were being addressed. "No one can ignore the plight of the workers but this is not the time to expose Kenyans to more suffering," Tolgos said. Patients at Kitale County Referral Hospital also complained of being neglected. "It would have been more useful if the government moves quickly to give the nurses what they want so we can get services because most of us can't afford services in private hospitals," patient Jane Mkanjala said. Same situation was reported in both rural and urban health facilities in the region Uasin Gishu Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno  received donations of PPEs for medical workers. He saidthe employees had been doing good work to tackle Covid-19. He did not r comment on the strike. (Edited by V. Graham)