Five magistrates have called on the Judicial Service Commission to embrace negotiation and dialogue so President Uhuru Kenyatta can appoint 41 judges he rejected. Senior principal magistrates Stella Atambo (Kiambu), Everlyne Olwande (Limuru), Dolphina Alego (Kakamega), Florence Macharia (Shanzu) and Teresia Nyangena (Kiambu) faced off on Tuesday in a debate to gauge their suitability to represent colleagues in the Judicial Service Commission. The magistrates said that litigating the stand-off would only harden the resolve of the Executive to stand their ground in sitting on the nominations. "Going to court and obtaining orders on this or that would not help at all," Atambo said. The candidates said it was time Uhuru and Chief Justice David Maraga were locked in a room in mediation to break the debacle. The election is organised by the Kenya Judges and Magistrates Association and is slated for Saturday, December 5. ICJ-Kenya was a co-convenor of the debate. The magistrates are running to replace chief magistrate Emily Ominde who has sat at the JSC since 2015.  More than 500 magistrates are expected to take part in the vote. The candidates were questioned on how better they would represent their colleagues and how they will use their single vote to make decisions in the best interest of peers. Asked how they would push for the security of magistrates, Atambo said she will champion easier access to firearm certificates to the judicial officers to enhance their capacity to defend themselves. Macharia said she would push the JSC to put in place modest measures to ensure families of magistrates are protected. Olwande said she would engage the Salaries and Remuneration Commission to have allowances for magistrates to enhance their safety. Nyangena said the magistrates’ security should include a better health care package. On how the JSC was handling disputes it has with other arms of government like funding and the stalled appointment of the 41 judges, the magistrates agreed that dialogue, lobbying and mediation should be priorities over litigation. “I have served in the KMA and hence have rapport with the JSC membership. I will use my clout to court members to agree with me on issues that I push,” Olwande said. Atambo, on the other hand, touted her mediation skills. “I’m a mediator and I’m charismatic. I will push for negotiation, have strong emotional intelligence and will favour consensus building. This should be approach in handling disputes, even those involving the appointment of judges,” Atambo said.