The nurses have vowed to continue with their strike until all their grievances are addressed. The Kenya National Union of Nurses SG Seth Panyako on Thursday said the Return To Work Formula between the doctors’ union and the government does not affect the nurses. He hit out at the Health CS Mutahi Kagwe for sideling the nurses, adding that the CS has had numerous meetings with the doctors union but has never showed up during the conciliatory meetings with nurses and clinical officers, adding that the government has since pulled out of the talks. The doctors called off their strike on Thursday after a series of meetings with the government, but Panyako has termed the decision by the doctors’ officials as hypocritical and betrayal to the doctors. “As far as we are concerned they are a union on their own they have entered an agreement with the employer and there in no much we can talk about an agreement which is not ours,” Panyako said. “This is the third or fourth time he is meeting with the doctors union. We have a feeling the doctors are being used to manage other health workers. And we don’t think these things are happening in good faith,” he added. The healthcare workers have been on strike demanding for provision of quality and standard PPEs, comprehensive medical cover, risk allowance, hiring of more healthcare workers and dedicated health facilities per county for those who contract Covid-19 while on duty. “I have just been going through the agreement and I am seeing a situation where doctors are saying let us just go back to work even if we do not have a comprehensive medical cover. It is not making sense. They were saying we will not go back to die, they have now agreed to go back and die. It is hypocritical, it is betrayal, they have betrayed the doctors,” he said. He however noted that the union has agreed to lower the amount of risk allowance they were demanding from Sh30,000 to Sh20,000 for the sake of parity as suggested by the government. “We want to be told those nurses who have died when the medical cover is not in place, what happens to them. What about those nurses who are admitted in hospital, they have died and we have contributed to pay their medical bills, we want those monies we have paid in those hospitals to be refunded and given to the families left behind.” Panyako also said the nurses will not be going back to work until the government lays bare the evidence on which the medical cover provided by each county government, adding that only nurses in counties that have met the demands will be allowed to resume duty. “We are yet to see any seriousness from the ministry of health towards resolving the strike by the nurses,” the SG said.