ODM party chairman and Suba South MP John Mbadi has dared Deputy President William Ruto to field a candidate for forthcoming Nairobi governor elections. Mbadi said since ODM candidate Omar Boga lost the Msambweni parliamentary by-election seat to Feisal Badar, an independent candidate the deputy president have been equating it to his high popularity in the country. Mbadi said Ruto was deluded by the win and dared him to openly field a candidate in the forthcoming capital governor race and align himself. “If you (Ruto) are man enough and feel you are popular by the win in Mswambweni then  field a candidate Nairobi for governor seat and mention your party,” Mbadi said. He said from recent public utterance, “It is clear Ruto has left Jubilee and is in a party we don’t know. There is no party called Independent for him to aligning himself to all independent candidates.” “A by election is not indicative for popularity a party or a candidate across Kenya and Ruto should not cheapen politics in Kenya, Ruto should not be over excited with a win in Msambweni for an independent candidate who is not even his man,” he said. He said instead of behaving like the Deputy President of a republic, Ruto “behaves like a youth winger who have been insulting leaders in each forums he gets a chance to.” “Come out openly to attack the BBI referendum instead of Raila, the referendum agenda is pushed by the president who is your party boss,” he said. He was speaking on Tuesday at Oruba estate in Migori town during the burial of Mzee William Adede, a businessman. Area Suna West MP Peter Masara, senator Ochillo Ayacko and former Nyatike MP Edick Anyanga were also present. Ayacko said the BBI push through the referendum may not be perfect, but by creating ward development fund and strengthening devolution the move is better placed to be passed by Kenyans. “Those against the referendum will never offer each Kenyan a wheelbarrow as an alternative. What we have currently is not better, any further changes will be done later,” he said. Masara and Anyanga said as a region, Nyanza was fully behind the change of the constitution and will pack the BBI process.