A parliamentary committee has ordered proprietors of Export Trading Limited to furnish them with travelling documents after claims that a director ‘dodged’ the team probing Sh4 billion fertiliser deals. The Agriculture committee chaired by Moiben MP Silas Tiren is investigating how the multi-billion tender was awarded to the company in 2012 and was to meet the directors of the firm on Tuesday. According to a letter from Export Trading Company Limited, one of its director was unavailable having travelled to South Africa and was unable to return in time for the sitting because of Covid-19 protocols. “We wish to bring to your attention that our director, Birju Patel, who is based in South Africa is facing travel challenges due to Covid-19 protocols. We have tried all possible means to facilitate his travel to the country but so far we have not succeeded,” read a letter from Kalpesh Patel to the National Assembly clerk. “In this regard, therefore, we humbly request, if you could consider and have the meeting rescheduled to a later date which will be convenient to both parties.” However MPs read mischief questioning why the three remaining directors could not be available for the meeting Nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi said ETC has four directors and wondered why the remaining three could not attend to give a response on how they won the tender. “The company, according to CR12, has four directors. If one is not available others should have come. It looks like there are delaying tactics,” Osotsi said. He told the committee that the company is applying delaying tactics so that the question is lost given the House is in long recess and will resume in February 2021. But Tiren said his committee will seek means of turning the question into an inquiry to ensure the matter is not lost. “We are making it (the question) into an inquiry so that we do not lose the matter. They (the other three directors) should have come, even if one director is missing,” Tiren said. ETC was awarded a contract to supply 30,000 tonnes of DAP fertiliser at Sh4 billion in 2012 and has since been the sole supplier. Osotsi had questioned the manner in which the tender was awarded to the firm through direct procurement after the tender committee controversially cancelled the initial tendering process.