A proposed law is seeking to force Kenyans to exclusively send packages of less than 350 grams through the struggling Posta Kenya service. Among the other radical recommendations of the Labour Committee of the National Assembly is that every company must have its own letterbox. The Postal Corporation of Kenya has accumulated losses of Sh5.9 billion and is technically bankrupt. The state corporation’s downfall is mostly attributed to the failure by the organisation to evolve with the time. Digital disruption that has seen the emergence of more rapid services has left the postal service in limbo for years. President Uhuru Kenyatta has unveiled a Sh928.6 billion plan to bring the country recover from the devastating effects of Covid19. The Jubilee administration is banking on the war-chest to mitigate the adverse effects of the virus and stimulate the economy. President Kenyatta intends to put more resources to the health sector; incentives to the private sector; recovery of tourism, manufacturing, and transport sector; more trees; more money for the police, the vulnerable in society, and ICT projects. The Post-Covid19 Economic Recovery Strategy provides for Sh21.4 billion for security and Sh43.1 billion for Health. Some Sh28 billion will be spent on increasing enrolment in primary schools; Sh4 billion to recruit teachers, and Sh1.1 billion on masks, soaps, and sanitisers. President Uhuru Kenyatta will on Wednesday chair a National Emergency Response Committee on Coronavirus meeting amid calls for stricter measures to control the spread of Covid-19. The President will then on Saturday during the Jamhuri Day celebrations announce the revised measures to curb the spread of the virus during the festive season. This even as it emerged that the Head of State will be taking an official one-month long holiday from December 15 to January 15, 2021. A statement by the ministry of foreign affairs to local diplomats said the President will not be available for any official or public engagements including phone calls unless they are emergencies. Ahead of tomorrow's meeting, governors are pushing for lockdowns in at least 10 counties considered as hotspots. They want restriction in the mass movement of people from urban centres to rural counties. A senate committee has focused a spotlight light on Health CS Mutahi Kagwe over PPEs and masks gathering dust at Kemsa premises while health workers fighting Covid 19 decry lack of the items. The Health committee on Monday issued summons to the CS after revelations he is yet to instruct Kemsa to release the items to the medics who said they are being forced to recycle the essential protective equipment due to shortage. Shortage and 'questionable' quality of PPEs that comprise the safety of medics are among the 10 grievances doctors want addressed to avert a looming strike which they postponed for 14 days to give room for negotiations. On Monday, more than 7,000 clinical officers and at least 30,000 nurses downed their tools and vowed not to go back to work until their grievances are addressed to the later. Union officials claimed despite being in negotiations with the government for the last three months, nothing tangible has come out of the meetings. Chief Justice David Maraga is yet to constitute a bench to hear and determine a case filed by Economist David Ndii on whether some aspects of the constitution can be amended. The petition by Ndii and four others threatens to derail the Building Bridges Initiative spearheaded by President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM Leader Raila Odinga. On November 30, Justice Anthony Mrima said the petition filed by Ndii was certified that raises substantial questions of law as to warrant an expanded bench of the High court. Matter was referred to the Chief Justice to assign an uneven number of judges to deal further with the case. But no bench has been appointed. Mrima directed that the matter be mentioned on Monday next week to confirm compliance.