Boxing Federation of Kenya (BFK) has launched a course specifically tailored for local coaches as part of its far-reaching plans to build capacity in the Country. BFK chairman Anthony 'Jamal' Ombok said the federation is using the initiative to recognise the critical role coaches play in implementing their 'Ndondi Mashinani' program." Jamal was speaking during the AIBA Star 1 Coaching Certification Course which kicked off at a Nairobi hotel on Wednesday.  A total of 20 coaches from across the country have been identified to undergo the course that is being conducted virtually from Europe. "The federation appreciates that the number of coaches who wanted to do the course was very high and the available slots were limited due to different factors," Jamal said. He added that the federation will organise more courses, both locally and internationally, in a bid to give opportunities to coaches in the grassroots to get formal training. "The course in Nairobi is being held virtually and we would like to appreciate the support that the International Federation Aiba has accorded us and a special mention to Interim Aiba President Mohamed Moustahsane," he said. Aiba has assigned two of their most experienced instructors, Terry Edwards from England and Ervin Kade from Finland, to preside over the exercise. "A test run of the system was done yesterday and the Aiba instructors were satisfied that BFK is up to the task of holding a successful Aiba star 1 Coaching certification course," said Jamal. Jamal said the federation expects the coaches to learn new coaching ideas which they will put to use when they go back to their respective clubs across the country. "There is a lot of talent in the country especially in the counties and the knowledge that the coaches will gain during this valuable international course will go a long way in helping them tap top talent by giving the youngsters the best foundation in their boxing journey." Jamal further said that the intention of the Federation was to start with an Aiba referees & judges course given that Kenya, once a powerhouse in the continent and the world over, is currently in a pathetic situation as a boxing nation with only one referee and one judge certified by Aiba. "Courses for referees and judges had initially been set for mid-November but as we prepared,  Aiba officials enquired about the kind of scoring system we were using and that’s when we discovered that we did not have a functional Swiss scoring system and the course could not go ahead without this critical equipment," said Jamal. Jamal noted that the Federation has since embarked on importing a scoring system and once the machine is in the country, the referees and Judges Aiba Star 1 certification course will take place so that Kenya can have competent Aiba certified ring officials in the Country. He wished all participants the very best as they undertake this important course in their coaching career.