Those who have grabbed property belonging to the county government of Kisumu should voluntarily surrender them before forceful repossession, acting city manager Abala Wanga has said. Among the properties which have been grabbed by individuals include parking lots, playing grounds, recreational parks, and city houses. Wanga said the city will embark on a rigorous process of repossessing all the county property. “It is unfortunate that few individuals have grabbed county assets which should benefit the citizen,” he said. Wanga added, "We are going to start first with big people who have grabbed public property in the city." He spoke during the ground-breaking ceremony for the construction of 1,394 affordable housing units at Anderson Estate on Wednesday. The units will compromise of one, two and three bedrooms. Governor Anyang Nyong'o and Laptrust CEO Hosea Kiili presided over the ceremony. The project saw 246 old  houses demolished to pave way for the construction. The city manager announced that they have compiled the list of grabbed property, with repossession expected to start soon. “If you know you’ve grabbed a parking lot, a playing ground, or a house please vacate because we are coming there with a bulldozer. We will flatten that area,” Wanga said. He cited Mama Grace Onyango hall, formerly social hall parking lot which has been grabbed by a private developer. “He has only a few days to vacate from there. We are going to demolish the perimeter wall he has erected and fenced it back,” Wanga said. In Kaloleni, he said there are people who have build houses on illegally acquired lands thereby blocking the construction Kaloleni rehabilitation centre. Wanga said those who have grabbed public land and build houses will not be spared. "In Kibuye, there were people who grabbed land and built rental houses and offices. These people have up to Friday to leave because they had been given notice," Wanga said. “If you know you erected a permanent or a makeshift structure in a market area come clean and return it back,” he said. Wanga said they will use the county artillery available at their disposal to repossess all the county assets. “Those who like can go to court. We will demolish structures because the property belongs to the county and you acquire it illegally,” he said. 