Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli has urged the government to have talks with striking health workers to end the crisis in public hospitals. He said the government has the obligation to dialogue with the workers' unions to enable them to return to work. His calls come as patients continue to suffer across the country. The medics are on strike over promotion, salaries arrears and risk allowances, among other grievances. “I want to appeal to the government to reach out to the striking health workers and find a joint solution,” Atwoli said. He said they have advised the government to meet the workers' representatives and strike a deal to end the suffering of Kenyans, especially patients. Atwoli said unions are recognised and strikes are enshrined in the Constitution but dialogue should always be prioritised. He spoke at Tom Mboya Labour College, Kisumu, during a meeting with the National Hospital Insurance Fund. The Cotu boss said the government has many offers to make to end the strike. It may not be in a position to address the demands being made by the health workers but can give them assurance, he said. He said many medics have previously fled to foreign countries because of the mistreatment back at home. He cited Botswana, South Africa and Namibia as some of the beneficiaries. Atwoli said the brain drain should stop but only if the government comes out, engages the health workers and puts into action what they agree to do. In several public health facilities across Kisumu county, the main patients' waiting bays, which are usually full, were empty on Friday as most patients sought treatment from private facilities. Patients at Ahero Subcounty Hospital said they were unable to get medical attention as nurses avoided the facility. Some went to private clinics as others returned home. They appealed to the national government to intervene and ensure critical health services are provided to reduce their suffering. "Let the government address the issue so that normality is back in most public hospitals. This will enable us to receive the needed services," John Opiyo, a patient, pleaded during his transfer to a nearby private hospital. Efforts to get comments from the administration failed. Nurses insisted that they will only resume duty after their demands are fully met. Vincent Owaa of the Kenya Union of Clinical Officers Kisumu county shared similar sentiments, maintaining that their grievances have to be addressed. Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong'o has pleaded with the health workers to shelve the strike and make room for gradual implementation of their demands. He said the strike was regrettable at a time when the county is battling the coronavirus.