Machakos Governor Dr Alfred Mutua has condemned what he termed as selfish politicians who turn burial ceremonies into political arenas. Speaking in Itundumimuni, Masinga sub-county-Machakos county, the Maendeleo Chap Chap Party leader shamed such behaviour and termed it as selfish and impervious. Mutua urged leaders to be sensitive and considerate of mourning families. This is after a section of politicians turned the burial of the late Machakos Senator Boniface Kabaka political. During the burial, mourners walked out on Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka as he read President Uhuru Kenyatta's message of condolences to the family of Kabaka. Dozens defied the former Vice President and Ukambani kingpin's plea that they settle down and listen to the President's message. In the message, the President described the Senator as "a candid and dependable leader who loved all Kenyans without reservation." "I am informed that since his childhood, Senator Kabaka was focused and stood to excel in all his undertakings," the President's message read. Kalonzo urged the mourners: "Just give a bit of a minute so that we hear the President's speech. If  you have to do that, please do so without talking." A large section of the large tent set up for the funeral service was left with empty seats. Unperturbed, the former VP finished the speech. "...God is a strength of my heart and my portion forever. We pray to almighty God to rest the soul of the late Senator Boniface Kabaka in everlasting peace," the speech read. Kalonzo's predicament could be linked to the high octane politics that the Tangatanga team put up at the service. Sonko charged the ground for the Wiper leader in 'cautionary word' against the latter's dalliance with ODM leader Raila Odinga. He sensationally claimed that powerful ‘calls from above’ were made to senators to remove him from office. Terming them cowards, Sonko claimed that instructions were given to the lawmakers to vote him out even though he was innocent. “I know many senators here are cowards.  They can’t say the truth. But because I don’t fear, I will say the truth,” he said at the burial of Kabaka. The visibly emotional Sonko added, “You senators don’t fear. That order from above…..order from above. Do your work according to the Constitution of Kenya.” Sonko was impeached last Thursday after 27 senators voted to uphold all the four charges that he faced at the senate. “[Kirinyaga Governor Anne] Waiguru with the mistakes she committed, you forgave her.  ..... me, because I have protected and defended the Constitution, you have sent me home because you have received orders from above,” he asserted. The ex-flashy county chief said he is fighting for his constitutional rights in court where he is seeking to have IEBC barred from declaring a vacancy in the office of the governor in Nairobi. “If you administered justice, then it was a good job but if you didn’t give me justice, I leave it to God.  God will forgive you if you did not give me justice. But if I committed any wrong, then I admit,” he said amid cheers from the crowd. Sonko persuaded Kalonzo to decamp the BBI brigade, claiming that he was being duped and used to pass a ‘fake’ document. The impeached governor says President Kenyatta and ODM boss Raila Odinga are lying to the Wiper leader. "They don’t mean anything good for you. They need you now because they want to pass BBI. Sit down with Ruto and agree where you will take this country,” he said. DP Ruto's allies decried what they 'termed' as double standards in dealing with governors facing graft allegations.