Livestock trade in most markets in West Pokot county have remained low despite being a festive month. Most of the traders have attributed it to fear of Covid-19. November and December are peak seasons for livestock traders in the county since there are many festive functions that take place. Sales are low in the market three months after they were officially opened. The markets were closed immediately the first case of Covid was reported in the country. “Chepareria and Kiashaunet are key livestock markets where we reap huge profits on market days but currently we are unable to make a profit of more than Sh500,” said John Lotiolo, a trader. Lotiolo said this year they have experienced low business and prices of livestock have also gone down. “Initially during such period  a 100kg cow would go for Sh60,000 but for now it is  as low as Sh30,000,” he said. The Covid pandemic, he said, has really hit the sector since they are no longer receiving buyers from outside the county. “During such months I used to make a profit of over Sh2,000 during market day but now I only make less than Sh500,” he said. “We used to have buyers from Nairobi, Bungoma, Trans Nzoia and other far-off regions but it seems they have kept off. Farmers seem to give up since they bring their livestock to the market but fail to get their target prices because there are few buyers,” Sammy Losibo. Losibo said that such time goats are always on high demand and prices increase on a daily basis depending on demand. He said that they are expecting maybe the sales will increase next month as schools will be reopening. “Goats are not selling like before. Farmers are being forced to go back with their livestock and since there is enough pasture occasioned by the extended rainy season, there is nothing to bother about,” the trader said. “Currently residents are reluctant to sell their livestock since their children are not in school. This has also contributed to low sales. Next month sales might slightly increase due to school fees,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori