A Health sector parastatal could be hell-bent on awarding a multi-million shilling insurance-related IT contract to a scandal-ridden firm. Sources whisper to Corridors the firm, said to be pushed by shadowy characters, could win two lots of the massive contract. The smooth-talking man man behind the company is well known in the insurance business. He recently raised eyebrows in several government institutions by getting massive contracts in a not-so-transparent manner. One group of civil servants has bitterly complained. Sources say the tender evaluation committee has retreated to come up with a report. Corridors is digging into this matter and will keep you posted. But one thing is clear: Should the contract go  to the sleazy firm, a legal battle is in the offing. Maybe Health CS Mutahi Kagwe (pictured) should hear this. *** Residents of a South Rift county are full of praise for Police IG Hillary Mutyambai for hearing their cries. The residents said they have enjoyed peace since the move by Vigilance House to reshuffle top police officers who had overstayed in their county. Car thefts, burglaries and other criminal activities had become rampant and were giving sleepless nights to residents. So daring were the criminals that they did not care whom they targeted. They broke into the house of a senior judicial officer and stole valuables. The racket is said to have had the blessings of a senior officer who overstayed in his duty station. Things changed for the better when the IG took action leading to the transfer of officers. *** Friends and relatives of a politician recently buried were left in shock when a senior politician who worked closely with the departed skipped his funeral. A little bird whispers to Corridors the associates of the politician were an unhappy lot on realising the man was in the county but chose to give the ceremony a wide berth. They said, sometimes, a friend in need is not a friend indeed. *** Scheming for the succession of President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022 is in top gear with leading political lights right at the centre. President Kenyatta's strategists are said to be torn among four candidates - three from Western Kenya and one from the Eastern region. This, Corridors has learnt, is causing internal fireworks ahead of the BBI implementation road map. A little bird tells Corridors that despite pressure from some of the President’s men to settle on a particular candidate who is experienced, others are keen on a candidate from Western. They have started bankrolling some of his projects. It's just a matter of time before the plans could come to light. 