Chief Justice David Maraga now says the uninspiring attitude towards the rule of law and constitutionalism has been the biggest frustration as a Judge. Maraga on Thursday said the 'uta do?' attitude among Kenyans which is the basis of impunity continues to cause untold pain to very many poor Kenyans. The CJ said Many Kenyans especially those holding public offices are interested in the law if it favours them not because they recognise it to be the foundation of every great society. "How often does this happen in our country? I have talked many times about our frustrations as the Judiciary when the Government fails to respect the basic tenets of the rule of law, such as obeying court orders and implementing court decisions without the slightest hesitation," Maraga said. Maraga's was speaking during a function at the Mombasa Rotary Club on Wednesday. He said at this stage of democratic evolution, the country should not be talking about such things as it should be as obvious as anything else. "When I talk about disobeying court orders, many immediately think of orders like the one requiring the government to facilitate Miguna Miguna’s return to the country. There are many other orders some of which mean livelihoods to very poor people," he said. Maraga said when a peasant buys a piece of land from his neighbour who refuses to transfer it, he goes to court and after many years, he eventually gets an eviction order. When he takes the order to the Police for assistance to evict, corruption kicks in and the Police question the propriety of the eviction order and start another case. "There are many such cases causing untold pain to poor Kenyans," he said. Maraga said he is also frustrated by his fellow countrymen and women due to their collective propensity for corruption. According to him, corruption has become like a stubborn virus running the blood and in the air that Kenyans breath. "The sorry state of affairs in this country and the reason why those of us in leadership positions are unable to do anything about it is attributable to a number of factors. One, we are very selfish. If something works well for us at the individual level, nothing else matters," he said. He said those who are not corrupt have sat back joyfully and don’t want to be concerned with what is happening or think there is nothing they can do about it. Maraga said the other facet of corruption is that role models and mentors have failed the young people around them. "When we abrogate our historical responsibilities, we are robbing mankind of its relay moment where the button of integrity and honour is passed on from one generation to another," he said. He added, "As a result, young people simply join the bandwagon of hedonistic pursuits. They want to buy flashy cars and live in upmarket estates in the first year of their work". Maraga said the people they admire most are the known thieves who flaunt their stolen wealth with abandon. "If you are in a powerful position and you don’t steal, they will say you area fool. We know what that means. My fear is that unless urgent action is taken to correct the definition of our heroes and heroines, this country will continue descending into anarchy," Maraga noted. Maraga said such vices have manifested in the country because many Kenyans despite their religion do not practice what they profess to believe in. "Why is there such discrimination and oppression in the world? Why are we literally sucking the blood of our fellow brothers and sisters? Why is the world so corrupt? The answer to these questions is simple. The world does not practice what it professes it believes in," he said. "In Kenya, although 80 per cent of its population is Christian with a fair percentage professing the Muslim, Hindu, Buddhist and other faiths, with the connivance of technocrat “entrepreneurs” across all those faiths, more than one-third of the Kenyan national budget is lost to corruption every year," he added. The CJ said what gives joy to his heart is the Kenyan spirit which despite the many challenges that Kenyans face, the essential greatness of the people remains intact. "I see it in many instances the hard-working Wananchi you find everywhere the generosity and genuine concern for others, particularly among the rural communities, our love for education, enthusiasm and optimism even in the face of daunting challenges and many other tenets that reassure me that the building blocks of a great nation are there," he said. He added, "What we need are the masons who will place the blocks in the right place, and a truly great society will emerge. What we need are women and men of integrity. What we need are women and men who will not preach water while drinking wine. What we need are women and men who will not steal from our people and offer pittances as charity to the same people they have stolen from. That includes you and me".