Leading gaming company Mozzartbet Kenya have officially been unveiled as the new sponsors of Football Kenya Federation Premier League (FKFPL) side Kakamega Homeboyz in an event held in Kakamega on Thursday 29 December. The sponsorship, a first for the club as it celebrates its 10th anniversary, is for the 2020/21 season and is worth sh.20 million. The event was attended by Kakamega County Minister of Sports Kassim Were, Mozzartbet Kenya Country Manager Sasa Krneta, AFC Leopards Chairman Dan Shikanda, veteran Sports Administrator and Journalist Elyna Shiveka, Kakamega Homeboyz Chairman Cleophas Shimanyula among other dignitaries. "We welcome Mozzartbet to Kakamega County, the home of football. We want to sincerely thank you as an organization for supporting our team Homeboyz and we are also very happy to see Mozzartbet doing other CSR activities like digging boreholes and donating crucial medical equipment to hospitals around the country," Kakamega CEC for Sports Kassim Were said. "As the county we have invested over sh.4 Billion in renovating Bukhungu Stadium and the onus is now on Kakamega Homeboyz to ensure international football is played in the facility. With the sponsorship from Mozzartbet and the support from County, the team should now perform better," he added. Club CEO Bernard Shitiabayi lauded Mozzart for partnering with the club saying the club was now ready to conquer the league and hopefully play in Continental matches in the near future. "This is a historic moment for the club and we are very happy and grateful to partner with Mozzartbet for the 2020/21 season. Our performance last season and the previous years has proved that we are a big club and the giants of Western Kenya. We have shown that we can challenge for the title but time and again we have faltered due to some internal challenges, nothing to do with the quality of our team," he said, "With this great sponsorship from Mozzartbet Kenya, we can proudly say that we are now ready to conquer Kenya and the target is to win the league and play continental matches in the near future," he added. Mozzart Kenya Country Manager Sasa Krneta said the company was happy to partner with the club and was eager to continue supporting other projects within the country. "I am very happy to have you all here gathered to witness this historic moment as we unveil our partnership with Kakamega Homeboyz. As Mozzart, we are very glad to partner with the club and we are looking forward to achieving great things together. This is a good club with potential to dominate the top league and it is our hope that this partnership will propel the team to greater heights," he said, "Mozzart has the interests of Kenyan communities at heart and therefore it was highly important for us to find a club that represents our values as an organization and I know we have the right partners in Homeboyz. To the people of Kakamega and Western Kenya, this is the time to rally behind the team and support them wholeheartedly as the success of Kakamega Homeboyz is your success. This is your team and we are here to support you in achieving your goals." He added. Kakamega Homeboyz coach Nicholas Muyoti also lauded the partnership and said his team was now aiming for the title. "We are very happy with this partnership as the technical bench and the playing unit has also promised to work hard. Thank you so much Mozzartbet, we are now ready to challenge for the title this season."