Mozzart Bet Kenya has been operational in Kenya for three years and is now honored to show solidarity Kenyans through establishing support for communities. They have done this through numerous projects. This week, they have launched their ambitious project dubbed "100 Wells Water Project". The organization is proud to announce the completion and commissioning of the first Water Point in Imbo, Kothidha, Homabay County. The people of Imbo are the first beneficiaries of their New Socially Responsible Initiative. Through this Water Project, Mozzart aims to give back to the society by delivering clean water to communities. It is hoped that the people of Kenya will accept this token and that this will make a difference in all the places in Kenya that they will be able to reach. Supporting Kenyan healthcare Earlier this year, Mozzart donated PPEs worth sh.10 million to Kenyan hospitals in support of the fight against Covid-19. The year has been a challenge largely due to the effects of the pandemic and in support of Kenya's healthcare, the medical equipment that was donated has been distributed to 10 hospitals across Kenya. These include healthcare facilities in Nakuru, Siaya, Kisii, Embu, Nyandarua, Baringo, Bomet, Kisumu, Kakamega & Kitui that received their first round of donations. Equipping facilities through ICT As they are now even more committed to giving back to the society, Mozzart Bet, through their Social Responsibility action dubbed, ‘Supporting Our Healthcare Facilities' is now delivering Intensive Care Unit facilities to needy hospitals, especially in hard to reach areas. So far, the company has donated ICU beds, Patient Monitors, Oxygen Concentrators and other critical intensive medical care equipment to the Ngara Health Centre Nairobi, Chemolingot Sub County Hospital in Tiaty. this will be replicated across other counties in Kenya in the near future. New jerseys for new champions In support of budding young talent within sports, Mozzart's initiative "New Jerseys For New Champions" has been able to donate full sports kits and footballs to various grassroots teams around Kenya.