A section of Jubilee MCAs who support the Building Bridges Initiative says the proposed Ward Development Fund is a plus for elected leaders. Deputy Majority Whip Waithera Chege said if the constitutional amendments are passed, each of the 85 elected MCAs would control in excess of Sh20 million each. Most ward-based programmes are contained in the WDF; the assembly wants them moved to the Public Works under the Nairobi Metropolitan Services. The BBI report has proposed that at least five per cent of the county government’s revenue both allocated by the national government and collected locally be channelled to the proposed Ward Development Fund. “Since devolution, Nairobi has been having the highest revenue collection and this means it has an advantage. More funding means that back in the wards, all projects will be completed including the stalled ones,” Waithera said. Majority leader Abdi Hassan, alias Guyo, further noted that the criteria for disbursement to each ward, public participation and identification of the development projects by residents will ensure wards are developed regardless of the political affiliation of its MCA. “By this, power will be given to residents back in the ward to identify projects they want to be implemented. This will ensure that development in the ward will not be at the mercy of the governor since funds for the projects will be made available to the MCA regardless of whether they are in good books with a governor,” he said. Nairobi county has the largest budget. All 85 elected MCAs would be the major beneficiaries as they would be in charge of the largest amount. In this financial year, the county government has a budget of Sh37.5 billion. This means at least Sh1.88 billion would go to WDF, with each of the wards getting Sh21.1 million. “Nairobi having had the highest revenue collection since the advent of devolution then it means it has an added advantage. More funding means that we will be able to complete the stalled projects and roll out new ones,” Guyo added. Waithera who is also South B ward representative said that the implementation of the BBI report was the only sure way to ensure an increase in allocation of funds to counties from a current 15 per cent to the proposed 35 per cent. "All along this is what we have been pushing for because not only will this ensure focus is on service delivery but also see to it that devolution is entrenched to people living near the furthest boundaries of each county,” she said. The first-term MCA also noted that BBI report has goodies for the youth who make up the majority of Nairobians, thus it is in the MCAs' best interest to support the report. The BBI has proposed a seven-year tax break for youth-owned businesses. Besides, the BBI team wants the establishment of business incubation centres to provide business advisory services, which includes access to capital and government contracts. 