 The Kenya Muslim National Advisory Council has criticised the government for plans to revert to the pre-Covid-19 taxes starting January 1. The National Treasury has announced that tax measures meant to cushion mwanachi against the harsh effects of Covid-19 will end on December 31. They included tax relief and various charges including sending money via M-Pesa for free for amounts not exceeding Sh1000. But Kemnac says Kenyans are yet to recover from the effects of Covid-19 and increasing taxes from January 1 will burden them further. “Why do you want to increase taxes yet Covid-19 is still here with us ravaging our economy?” Kemnac chairman Sheikh Juma Ngao said. The Muslim cleric’s sentiments come days after human rights defenders at the Coast also opposed plans by National Treasury CS Ukur Yatani to effect the pre-Covid-19 taxes at the turn of the year. The Coast Civil Society Organisations Network on Monday said reverting back to the taxes when things are not yet to get back to normal makes no sense and will only hurt already hurting Kenyans. “If anything, we want those taxes reduced even further,” said Coast CSOs Network chairman Zedekiah Adika. He spokme at a press conference at the Muhuri Legal Aid Clinic outside the Mombasa Law Courts. On December 4, Yatani announced that taxes cut during the start of the pandemic will revert to normal from January 1, 2021. However, the CS said those earning below Sh24,000 will continue enjoying 100% tax relief by exempting them from Pay As You Earn tax. On Monday, the CSOs said since the Covid-19 pandemic reached Kenya, millions have lost their jobs. This means, Adika said, those few Kenyans who are still in employment are now bearing the brunt of the job losses because they are the very ones taking care of those who lost their jobs. “It is not reasonable to revert the normal taxation regime. Government needs to reduce the taxes further,” Adika said. On Wednesday, Sheikh Ngao said the move by Yatani will be a blow to Kenyans most of who were not consulted. “Where was any public participation forum made where Kenyans agreed to have the taxes increased back to the previous rates?." He said the businesses affected  by the pandemic are yet to re-establish themselves and parents are struggling to get school fees for when schools re-open. Ngao said tourism has been destroyed yet it is the sector that supports the livelihoods of most by people in the Coast. “Hotels are still closed. Those open do not have guests. Those fired from the hotels because of Covid-19 are still jobless. Yet you want to increase taxes? Is that fair?” he asked. He said businesses that are operational cannot work 24/7 because of the curfew that is still in place. Just like the human rights defenders, the Muslim body proposed that the taxes remain as they are at the moment or be reduced further. “Covid-19 is even now more pronounced so much so that countries are even banning flight into the UK, where a new strain of the virus is causing havoc.” Kemnac also called on Education CS George Magoha to scrap school fees. Learners are expected back in class beginning Monday when schools fully reopen following the coronavirus shutdown in March. Ngao said parents should be given a special plan so they can pay in instalments. “We do not want to hear students sent home for fees. In fact if possible, the whole of next year should be free learning for all students,” he said. 