The U.S continued to remove troops from Somalia following President Donald Trump’s directive earlier this month. The Pentagon said the Expeditionary Sea Base USS Hershel "Woody" Williams is “conducting maritime operations off the coast of Somalia” to “reposition U.S. DOD personnel from Somalia to other locations in East Africa. According to reports, some military assets and troops will be relocated to Manda Bay, a jointly run Kenya Defence Forces camp in Lamu and others in Djibouti. According to VOA, Trump’s order is part of an effort to draw down U.S. forces globally, including in Afghanistan and Iraq, before he leaves office January 20. About 700 U.S. troops had been in Somalia, helping local forces in the fight against the al-Shabab insurgency. The mission has gone largely unnoticed in the U.S., but it has been a key component of the Pentagon’s campaign to combat al-Qaida worldwide. Africa Command commander, U.S. Army Gen. Stephen Townsend said he directed the formation of Joint Task Force- Quartz to oversee Operation Octave Quartz, a mission designated to reposition forces from Somalia. Townsend traveled to Kenya and other East Africa countries between December 14-17 and met with U.S. commanders and forces supporting the mission and operations. “JTF-Quartz is commanded by the SOCAF commander, Maj. Gen. Dag Anderson. I have just returned from visiting him at his forward headquarters in East Africa where I met with Dag and his commanders to review their posture and plans. JTF-Quartz is ready to go,” he said. Townsend also met with African partners, providing reassurance of sustained commitment to East Africa security. “To be clear, the U.S. is not withdrawing or disengaging from East Africa. We remain committed to helping our African partners build a more secure future,” Townsend said. “We also remain capable of striking Al-Shabaab at the time and place of our choosing—they should not test us.” The JTF will relocate forces while maintaining pressure on violent extremist organizations in the region and supporting enduring partners. “We will execute this mission swiftly, methodically, and with additional forces to protect both our partners and US forces,” said Maj. Gen. Dagvin Anderson, Joint Task Force – Quartz commander. “Enemies should expect continued pressure and swift retribution if they choose to attack.” The repositioning of forces will be completed in a deliberate, conditions-based manner. The U.S. withdrew some troops earlier this year from the Somali cities of Bossaso and Galkayo. As of last month, American troops remained in the capital, Mogadishu, in the port city of Kismayo and at the Baledogle airbase, 96 kilometers northwest of Mogadishu. The Pentagon said an unspecified number of U.S. troops would be moved to neighboring countries, while others would be reassigned outside East Africa. Trump’s order to withdraw from Somalia comes as the country prepares for parliamentary and presidential elections, and weeks before U.S. President-elect Joe Biden takes office. Somalia has been torn by a nearly 20-year civil war, but an African Union-supported peacekeeping force and U.S. troops have regained control of Mogadishu and large parts of the country over the past decade.