Focus has shifted to the electoral agency and the anti-graft body after the Registrar of Political Parties Anne Nderitu cleared impeached Kiambu governor Ferdinand Waitutu to run for Nairobi governor. Waititu was impeached in January for gross violation of the constitution, abuse of office and gross misconduct – months after he was charged with Sh580 million irregular tender. Lawyers argued that the grounds are grave and contravene Chapter Six of the Constitution on Leadership and Integrity. The chapter is succinct that state officers removed for abuse of office are barred from holding any other state office – unless the same is reversed by a court of law. However, enforcement of the constitutional provision for purposes on election rests with the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC). This makes the two agencies, which have often been blamed for failing to strictly enforce the law, the centre of attention following Nderitu’s clearance of Waititu. “It will be left to IEBC’s judgment.  The registrar judged Waititu as per what the office should look at. It is now for IEBC and EACC, which is also a clearinghouse that deals with integrity and ethics, that should declare themselves on this,” constitutional lawyer Bobby Mkangi said. Mkangi added that the two bodies have ‘clear’ reasons to deem Waititu as unfit because he was removed from office through a constitutional and legal process and there is also no case challenging the process that is pending before a court of law. “I wouldn’t fault EACC or IEBC in refusing to issue clearance to him. He may go to court after that to challenge their decision,” he said. Lawyer Charles Kanjama said Waititu’s fate now lies squarely with IEBC. He, however, argued that the commission will ‘most likely’ clear Waititu because Chapter Six of the constitution only gives ‘guidance.’ “Chapter Six doesn’t compel IEBC in any way. It provides general guidance. Most likely they will clear him,” he said. Waititu seeks to run for Nairobi governor seat that was left vacant after Mike Sonko was impeached mid this months for similar grounds as Waititu’s. He wants to contest as an independent candidate. On Monday, the registrar established that Waititu does not belong to any political party. The symbol he intends to use is also not used by any other person or party. The registrar thus declared him compliant. Waititu, alongside other aspirants for the seat, are now set to present their papers – academic certificates, clearance certificates from EACC, DCI, and HELB among others – to the IEBC on January 18, for clearance to contest in the mini-poll. A fortnight ago, Rarieda MP and former chairman of Commission on Administrative Justice Otiende Amollo fingered IEBC and EACC for their continued clearance for elections candidates with serious integrity issues. “Even as Ombudsman, there are 58 people including Sonko and Waitutu that we recommended should not be allowed to run. They were still cleared. EACC and IEBC have been a letdown,” Otiende who served as chairman of the Commission on Administrative Justice told the Star. Article 75 (1) of the Constitution states that a state officer shall behave in a manner that avoids any conflict between personal interest and public or official duties or in a manner demeaning of the office. It also says state officers must not compromise any public or official interests in favour of personal interests or in a manner demeaning the office he/she holds. “A person who has been dismissed or otherwise removed from office for a contravention of the provisions specified in clause (2) is disqualified from holding any other State office,” Article 75(3) states. The Constitution is even more explicit in Article 180 (2) and 193(2). Article 193 (2g) states that a person is disqualified from being elected a member of a county assembly if the person has been found, in accordance with any law, to have misused or abused a State office or public office or to have contravened Chapter Six. Article 180 (2) makes it mandatory that to be eligible for election as county governor, a person must be eligible for election as a member of the county assembly.