The composition of the Kenyan Premier League could be reviewed down to 16 teams from 18 after Football Kenya Federation elected to cancel Mathare United and Zoo FC fixtures for the 2020/21 season. The two teams, who are yet to kick off the season had their fixtures cancelled after declining to endorse a broadcast deal between the federation and StarTimes. Four clubs had initially taken a firm stand against the deal on the grounds that they were not allowed to independently negotiate with StarTimes. Suspended Gor Mahia secretary general Samuel Ochola put pen to paper two weeks ago while Ulinzi Stars are reported to have softened their stance. However, both Ulinzi Stars chairman Erick Oloo and his Gor counterpart Ambrose Rachier insist that the clubs have not assented to the pact. Oloo said the club had not given StarTimes deal the green-light to air their matches but welcomed the idea to open their season against Gor on Sunday at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani. On the other hand, Rachier says K'Ogalo are ready to feature in the league. He had earlier threatened to sue the broadcaster should they air their matches. Interestingly, the match is set to be beamed live. "We have not signed anything but we are ready to play. The team is prepared to tackle Gor this weekend and hopefully, we will win our fifth title this time round. The match will be live and since Gor are the hosts we have no problem with that. However, we will make a decision on how to go about our home matches which are scheduled for TV," said Oloo in a telephone interview. The federation is understood to have been imploring clubs which had expressed reservations with the deal to relent so as to meet the StarTimes demands of 16 endorsements from the clubs. "We have decided to cancel their fixtures for the season which means they will not be allowed to play. They are free to seek legal redress but we are confident our actions will be justified since the constitution gives the federation the right to all deals on the league," said a source at Kandanda House. The contract 'rebels' might further find themselves in hot soup as the National Executive Committee meets today to deliberate on the way forward. Efforts to seek a reaction from Zoo chairman Ken Ochieng and  Mathare's Chief Executive Officer Jecton Obure were futile. "The federation's NEC will sit today to decide on the top flight status of the two clubs. There is a big possibility that they will be expelled which means they will have to start all over again from the grassroot level," he added