Mlolongo assistant county commissioner Dennis Onganga has decried increased rate of narcotics in the division and its neighbourhoods. Onganga  said drug peddlers had invaded the town and compromised the area’s security. “We have today held a divisional security meeting in Mlolongo and resolved to flush out bhang peddlers, including their suppliers. We are committed to ensuring  we completely eliminate those who trade in illicit alcohol alongside other narcotics including bhang,” Onganga said. He addressed the press shortly after the security meeting at his office in Mlolongo on Monday. The administrator said two people were last Thursday nabbed in possession of 21 rolls of bhang during a joint operation by police officers headed by Mlolongo OCS Jackson Kangangi, chiefs and himself. Onganga said they will not allow narcotics trade and warned those who deal in illicit liquor will not be spared either in the crackdown. “We will not sleep as security team in this division. Our mandate is to ensure that law and order is maintained at all times and residents’ lives and property are protected,” he said. He said those in unlawful businesses should either move out of his division or find other legitimate businesses to engage in. “We are ensuring that security is enhanced in Mlolongo, especially this festive season. Let all residents be alert and inform security agencies on any suspicious persons or activities in their neighbourhoods to help us protect lives and property effectively.” Onganga warned residents against violating Covid-19 directives. “In Mlolongo, we want to tell locals that Covid-19 is with us hence we want them to comply with the government directives on the disease 100 per cent. Wear face masks, wash your hands regularly, and keep social distance at all times,” he said. The official said residents should also avoid thronging entertainment joints to ensure they maintain social distance. Onganga said all bars and clubs, alongside other entertainment joints should ensure they operate within the law or else they risk their operational licenses being withdrawn by the relevant authorities. 