Nyamira Governor Amos Nyaribo has called upon all the leaders to remain united for a common purpose. He spoke immediately after he was sworn in to take over as governor, at Nyamira Primary School in Nyamira town. "I wish to call upon all the leaders in the county government and National government to help me unite the people of Nyamira for the purpose of developing our county," Nyaribo said. Nyaribo also promised the county residents of his commitment to ensure he completes the projects that was started by the late governor John Nyagarama. Nyaribo further promised to work for all without discrimination for the better of Nyamira County. "As your new governor, I promise that I will not let you down. I will work for all and ensure development and unity in our county," Nyaribo said. Nyamira County speaker urged the governor to accommodate all the people in his government. "We pray that you will settle down quickly and be a unifying factor in the county so that we feel the impact of your leadership, and we as the assembly are more than ready to support you. The remaining eighteen months are very short," Teya said. His take over as the county boss comes after the death of John Nyagarama who was the governor, which occurred on December 18 , 2020. The swearing in ceremony took place at the Nyamira Primary School in Nyamira town on Tuesday. Various leaders attended the ceremony including Kisumu deputy governor Mathews Owili, Kisii County governor James Ongwae, Nyamira County Commissioner Amos Mariba, County secretary James Ntabo, IPOA chair Anne Makori, Woman representative Jerusha Momanyi, Senator Okongo Omogeni and a number of MCA's from several Counties. Others were MPs Vincent Kemosi (West Mugirango), Joash Nyamoko (North Mugirango), Shadrack Mose (Kitutu Masaba), Ben Momanyi (Borabu), Nyamira speaker Moffat Teya, Kisii speaker David Kombo and a number of leaders. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, Council of Governors chairman and also Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya attended. Nyaribo was sworn in by Nyamira High Court presiding judge Esther Maina, where leaders urged Nyaribo to ensure he fulfills the promises that he and his departed boss had made to the residents of Nyamira. "We have very high expectations from you as much as the people of Nyamira are concerned. We hope you will strive and attain the goals that had not been achieved before in the county," Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa said.