 The Kenya Red Cross on Wednesday donated commodities worth Sh4 million to the NMS to support healthcare workers on the frontline in the fight against Covid-19. The commodities were both pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical. Speaking during the handover ceremony at Lady Northey, Kenya Red Cross deputy Secretary-General Annette Msambeni assured NMS of their help in supporting healthcare workers to fight coronavirus. “Over the past few months, in collaboration with the Ministry of Health, we have worked in different counties across the country to support activation and functioning of Covid-19 county teams of different levels,” Msambeni said. The Kenya Red Cross is a member of the National Taskforce on Covid-19 which has been working to curb the spread of the virus since it was first reported in the country in March.   The donation is part of the Mastercard Foundation’s Covid-19 Recovery and Resilience Programme meant to benefit 14 counties. It is aimed at strengthening the capacity of healthcare personnel, first responders, frontline workers and Red Cross volunteers on infection, prevention and control of the virus. In July, Red Cross and Mastercard Foundation partnered to train 2,585 healthcare workers across the 14 counties to fight Covid-19. The counties include Nairobi, Kiambu, Kajiado, Mombasa, Kilifi, Nakuru, Kitui, Kakamega, Uasin Gishu, Busia, Homa Bay, Siaya, Mandera and Kwale. Kenya Red Cross also donated community health volunteer kits and dignity kits for those at risk of gender-based violence. While receiving the merchandise, NMS director for health services Josephine Kibaru said the donation will be distributed to various health facilities. “As NMS, we are grateful for the support we have received in order to ensure our frontline workers are equipped with necessary commodities,” she said. Kenya Red Cross had also partnered with NMS to repair grounded ambulances that were among 83 vehicles restored at a cost of Sh22 million. Kabiru said NMS was looking forward to strengthening the coordination mechanism in order to ensure the healthcare workers have the necessary support. She said challenges faced the health sector in Nairobi have been magnified over the last eight months owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. She said the challenges include gender-based violence. “NMS has not yet even scratched the surface in Nairobi in terms of curbing challenges but we plan to make a change in the health sector so that we can be accountable,” she said. Most of the challenges have been attributed to a lack of funding to support programmes to address them.