The Ministry of Education has proposed that university graduates be tracked into the job market. The proposal seeks to create a centralised data system that will keep track of students from the moment they are admitted and further into their workplaces after graduation. The proposal suggests the move will provide universities with required data on whether the training offered is in line with the needs of the job market. Universities will also be required to employ full-time career counsellors to assist learners with the know-how of their career selection beginning next year. This follows a 2019 directive by the ministry to university heads to set up career offices to guide young people on their choices and job market demands. Kenyatta University has already established a centre for career development and mentoring for continuing and potential students and alumni but other institutions have not. The draft policy comes to mend a mismatch between university training and work expectation. The mismatch is attributed to the lack of proper career guidance in the universities. “There is lack of well-structured, ethical and purposeful guidance to assist students’ career planning in a practical and personalised way,” the draft proposal reads in part. The office of career services is designed to assist students in identifying potential careers, develop educational plans and provide accurate information about academic progression and degree requirements. But institutions lack resources to support career guidance and counselling services, designated office space and equipment. To correct this, the policy suggests that, the government allocates financial resources to establish and operationalise the career guidance and counselling centres. The draft also requires all universities to establish a framework for linking career guidance and counsellors to the job market. The ministry also proposes that a curriculum to guide career guidance and counselling be adopted with an innovative calendar of events for programme implementations. The career offices will be coordinated under a career guidance and counselling centre at the Ministry headquarters. The ministry also wants the universities to create start-ups, innovation incubation centres that will inculcate a culture of entrepreneurship and job creation among university students. Under the proposal, students will also have a chance to contribute to community development with the ministry proposing that universities use the career guidance office in creating community programmes students can engage in. 