The Kenya Bureau of Standards has published 10 new standards for industry adoption. The new guidelines provide a framework and general principles for maintenance and repair of existing concrete structures, construction requirements for sludge treatment and storage facilities in wastewater treatment plants and precast concrete channels, edgings and quadrants. “It is paramount to uphold standards to ensure the growth and sustainability of the housing sector and boost the Kenyan economy,” Managing Director Bernard Njiraini said. Wastewater treatment plants standards regulate the design principles and specify the construction requirements for sludge treatment and storage facilities in wastewater treatment plants. They also specify data which is necessary for the planning, design, bidding, performance guarantees, construction, start-up and compliance testing of a wastewater treatment plant or parts of it. Maintenance and repair of concrete structures standards provide the framework and general principles for maintenance and repair of all kinds of existing concrete structures such as un-reinforced and reinforced concrete, prestressed concrete and steel-concrete composite structures, or their structural members. They also provide the basic concept of repair and preventions carried out to restore the structural performance of existing structures, describes general requirements and procedures for the assessment of concrete structures and specifies how execution and maintenance shall be carried out. KS 829:2020 Kenya Standard — Precast concrete channels, edgings and quadrants — Specification, Second Edition, takes into consideration advancement in technology in the production of precast concrete channels, edgings, and quadrants in terms of dimensional requirement. “Products intended for use in construction works must be assessed to ensure they conform with the requirements laid down in the approved standards. Construction products concerned must therefore be accompanied with proof of conformity such as certificates and test reports,” Njiraini added.