At least 20,000 vulnerable families in Nairobi will get Sh6,000 NHIF medical cover annually. The Nairobi Metropolitan Services will roll out the programme starting this month. The new development is aimed at supporting vulnerable city residents to meet health costs. NMS director general Mohammed Badi the exercise will be carried out under the universal healthcare programme. “NMS is currently in discussion with the social security department to ensure than only the most vulnerable families are picked. The process which start in January and will allow Nairobi to sustain health financing,” he said. In the 2019 census, Nairobi county has 1.5 million households making up the 4.3 million population. However, the exact number of poor households is unknown. According to NMS Health Services director Josephine Mbae, the target is to cover 20 per cent of Nairobi’s poor households in the first phase. She said a tool developed by the Ministry of Health will assist NMS  to identify households to be covered. NMS with assistance of local leaders and the social protection department has begun the process of identifying households set to benefit in the first phase. “We are informed that NHIF already has a budget to cover the number which will be identified. Ours now is to make sure that by January we have the people who will be covered. Each household will be given Sh6,000 per year,” Mbae said. The NMS boss acknowledged receiving a donation of five ventilators from the United States Agency for International Development for Mama Lucy Kibaki Hospital. The health facility located in Embakasi West is set to be upgraded to a county referral hospital. NMS has completed and equipped a 50-bed Covid-19 treatment centre at Mama Lucy Hospital. “These ventilators are meant for the set-up and operationalisation of a 10-bed ICU at Mama Lucy Kibaki Hospital treatment centre for Covid-19. The ICU facilities will be managed by NMS,” Badi said. USAID has assisted NMS with lab testing, contact tracing and equipping a 160-bed isolation centre at Mbagathi. “Most of Nairobi residents are not privileged to afford private healthcare and that is why NMS will compete and equip 24 health centres by end of January 2021 as well as operationalise a level 5 hospital in Korogocho which stalled and had been under construction for the last 20 years,” Badi said.