President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto top the list of political bigwigs to watch in 2021, a time the country is expected to hold the first constitutional amendments to the current law. Known for dwindling political bromance since they were re-elected to office in 2017, Uhuru and Ruto will play a critical role, especially in the coming amendments whereas the President has expressed his support for the law change while his deputy has remained non-committal. Political commentator Danstan Omari insists that President Uhuru remains a person to watch in the coming two years stating he will shape a number of political happenings both next year and 2022. “Unlike Kibaki's time, Uhuru has engaged very actively in the elections of 2022 so Kenyans must watch his steps as he has fought not to be a lame-duck president and he seems to be succeeding. So, he'll be a big question in 2022,” Omari said. “Then we have now the contestants, William Ruto with his hustler movement and Raila Odinga if he will contest. They have a big following, fanatical bases, they are serious politicians, good campaigners and the deep rich docket so they'll also be very critical in 2022.” Smarting from gruesome Msambweni by-elections and losing the seat to his arch political rival Deputy President William Ruto, opposition chief remains a man whose commission and omission will thrust him among the marked men of 2021. The coming referendum and series of by-elections in Nairobi, Matungu and Kabuchai will put the trio in the national political scene as they are expected to stamp their political authorities ahead of 2022. Nairobi being dear to President’s heart, some sources are saying that Uhuru and Raila could sponsor joint candidates for governor and deputy governor in a strategy to control Nairobi politics ahead of 2022 polls. The President is also keen on a loyal governor who will not disrupt the workings of the Nairobi Metropolitan Services and threaten the deed of transfer. Political Analyst Joseph Mutua, however, opines that in the coming year, Raila and ANC boss will be people to watch especially from President Uhuru’s camp. He noted that Raila would find it easy to sacrifice his presidential ambition and support Mudavadi so as to block Ruto from taking over from President Uhuru in 2022. “We are going to have two camps, one of them being the handshake and the Ruto camp. The politicians to watch in the handshake or BBI camp are quite a number but talking about the front liners, I have two in mind - Musalia Mudavadi and Raila Odinga as the presidential candidate in the handshake camp,” Mutua said. He added: “The reason why I'm talking about the two is that the position of Raila is that he doesn't want Ruto to succeed President Kenyatta and  he has made up his mind that he does not want Ruto to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022 and based on that if Raila realizes that he is not commanding the full support of the country he may opt to step aside and support Musalia Mudavadi as the presidential candidate on the handshake coalition.” Mutua also avers that eyes should also be on ex Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, two leaders he noted will play conspicuous roles in the handshake team going into 2022. Already, Kenneth’s name has popped up as a likely successor to impeached governor Mike Sonko. A former Nairobi gubernatorial aspirant and once Planning assistant minister and a 2013 presidential candidate, Kenneth is also viewed as the heir apparent of President Uhuru in Mt. Kenya politics. According to Omari, a new breed of politicians especially Governors serving their final terms will also hold sway on the politics of next year going into 2022. “These are the new entrance. We have Oparanya (Kakamega Governor), Joho (Mombasa Governor), Mudavadi, Kalonzo. All these people are likely to be determinants for the 50 plus one vote. They might deny some people the requisite 50 plus one vote,” Omari said. Veteran trade unionist and Cotu Secretary General Francis is another individual who political observers see as another force to reckon with in the New Year. Atwoli’s Ildamat home is known for hosting who-is-who in the political arena where political deals are discussed and settled. A confessed KANU loyalist, Atwoli’s passion for Building Bridges Initiative and 2022 succession politics has earned him ‘membership’ to the politically correct elites loosely referred to as Deep State of Uhuru’s administration. Observers, however, note that Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetangula’s relevance will be informed by the bold steps they will take especially on their 2022 political matrix.