Kenya's locust invasion the worst in 70 years has affected the northern region posing unusual threats to food security and livelihood for vulnerable populations. The first desert locust in Kenya was reported on December 28, 2019, in the northeast near Somalia border at Mandera and El Wak region and moved south to Wajir county. Data from the Ministry of Agriculture indicates that by June, at least 28 counties were affected by the desert locust invasion. But according to Red Cross, 16 counties including Baringo, Embu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Garissa, Isiolo, Kitui, Laikipia, Machakos, Mandera, Marsabit, Meru, Samburu, Tana River, Tharaka Nithi, Turkana and Wajir were most affected. Destruction A survey on the impact of the desert locust invasion in Kenya released in November by the Kenya Red Cross shows that approximately 609,999 ha (1.5 million acres) were infested with desert locust in the 16 counties from the time of infestation to the time the assessment was conducted. This is equivalent to 30,213 ha (74, 657 acres) of cropland and 579,786 ha (1.4 million acres) of pastureland. The survey was conducted between May to June by the Kenya Red Cross with funding from the UN- Food and Agriculture Organization, on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture. It was meant to provide insight into the effectiveness of the ongoing locust control operations, understand the impact of the invasion on livelihoods, and to strengthen preparedness and response of counties against desert locust invasion to enhance the resilience of livelihoods. “At the time of assessment of the total area of invasion, 49 per cent of cropland and 56 per cent of pastureland were reported to have had control operations that were still in progress,” the study revealed. Estimates derived from the satellite and drone imagery analysis indicated that there was a vegetation loss of 6.6 per cent of cropland and 9.4 per cent of pastureland during the desert locust invasion. There was a notable change in vegetation cover in Marsabit county and its boundaries with Isiolo and Samburu counties. The Red Cross report recommended agricultural support through the provision of inputs such as crop and pasture seeds to enable affected communities to replant affected/damaged crops and pastures. This would enhance production, crop diversification and minimize loss due to the infestation. “This is in addition to food security and livelihood support of vulnerable communities such as cash plus, conditional and unconditional cash transfers to enable affected communities meet their immediate needs and support livelihood recovery,” the study showed. FAO report on the desert locust crisis indicates that the Horn of Africa is facing the worst desert locust crisis in over 25 years but the situation remains alarming, in Ethiopia, Kenya and Somalia. Control measures By mid-year, more than 20 counties had been infested by locust and control teams from the FAO and the Government moved in to treat the infested areas using ground and air control as well as FAO’s elocust3 application. Agriculture CS Peter Munya said since the upsurge in January, more than 157, 000 hectares have been controlled in Kenya alone. This, he said, safeguarded more than 314, 000 metric tonnes of cereals. “Complete eradication of the desert locust is our ultimate goal and with the additional surveillance equipment, we hope to properly map and treat the more remote affected locations,” Munya said. Dominique Burgeon, FAO’s Director of the Office of Emergencies and Resilience said the organisation’s commitment was to effect desert locust control in the region and abroad. FAO had appealed for Sh34. 3 billion to expand its support for rapid control and surveillance operations in the Horn of Africa, Yemen, Southwest Asia, West Africa and the Sahel. “We continue to explore and apply effective digital approaches for Desert Locust control. Despite COVID-19 constraints, we must make all possible efforts to avoid a desert locust related deterioration of the food security situation,” he said in September during a visit to survey the DL situation in the country. 2019-2020 Desert Locust upsurge according to FAO January 2020- Swarms continue to invade, spread, mature and lay eggs in Ethiopia and Kenya. Hatching occurs in NE Somalia. Other swarms move into the interior of Yemen and Saudi Arabia. February 2020- Swarms continue in Kenya, a few reach Uganda and South Sudan, groups reach Tanzania. Widespread hatching and bands in Kenya. Other swarms reach both sides of the Persian Gulf. March 2020- widespread hatching causes a new generation of swarms to form in Ethiopia and Kenya. A few swarms invade Uganda and South Sudan. Widespread swarm laying and hatching in southern Iran. April 2020- More swarms form, mature and lay eggs in Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia, and Yemen. Second-generation hopper bands form in Iran and Pakistan. May 2020- Another generation of hatching and band formation in Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia, and Yemen. Second-generation swarms form in Iran and Pakistan, and migrate to Indo-Pakistan, continuing to northern India. June 2020- Second-generation swarms form in northwestern Kenya and swarms form in Ethiopia, Somalia, and Yemen. Spring-bred swarms continue to move to Rajasthan and northern states of India. July 2020- More swarms form in NW Kenya, Ethiopia, Somalia, and Yemen. Some swarms move north to Ethiopia and others move from Yemen to NE Ethiopia. First-generation laying, hatching and band formation occurs along Indo-Pakistan border. August 2020- Swarms mature and lay in NE Ethiopia, some swarms invade Eritrea and breed; immature swarms persist in NW Kenya and N Somalia. Bands and swarms continue in Yemen interior. September 2020- Widespread hatching and band formation in NE Ethiopia and Yemen, immature swarms persist in N Somalia, N Kenya. Swarms arrive in E Sudan and lay. SW Asia returns to calm. October 2020- Numerous swarms form in Ethiopia and move E; swarms mature and lay in NE Somalia and move S; breeding declines in Yemen interior but bands and swarms form on Red Sea coast; bands form in E Sudan, Eritrea, Saudi Arabia.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris