Twenty-five doctors sacked in July last year in Kirinyaga county have lodged an appeal with the Public Service Commission. Through the Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union, the doctors said they were dissatisfied with the decision made by the county public service board on July 8. They said the board sacked them without giving them a chance to be heard and with no justifiable or lawful cause. They were dismissed on allegations of being absent from duty without leave or lawful cause. But the doctors said the process and mode of dismissal constituted a gross violation of national values and principles of governance. “The letters failed to adhere to the laid out procedures prescribed under the collective bargaining agreement,” they said. “The board’s decision to summarily dismiss the appellants was made without giving a reasonable period within which to respond, which under the county public service human resource manual should not be less than 10 days, stating clearly the nature of the offence and the contemplated action.” KMPDU said the dismissals were actuated by malice and ill-will on the part of the board. “The decision was not only outrageous but also capricious and whimsical,” the union said. The doctors want the PSC to set aside the decision of the county public service board and reinstate them without any loss of benefits. They also want the PSC to direct a refund, reinstatement of remuneration or release any withheld payments due to them. The union said the appellants were disabled by the fact that the county government of Kirinyaga had taken the matter to the Employment and Labour court in Nyeri. Employment and Labour Court’s Justice Nzioka Mutua had on July 2 ruled that the doctors’ strike was unlawful. He gave the governor a directive to fire the striking doctors at her volition after they refused to report to work over the sacking of county casual workers. “Any officer who did not report to work by Monday, July 8, 2019, stands dismissed and should collect their letters of termination from their previous duty stations,” Governor Anne Waiguru said in a statement. In April 2020, the Union of Kenya Civil Servants Kirinyaga branch urged Waiguru to recall health workers whose services were terminated following the strike. Edited by A.N