“I finished my internship a month ago and the future looks so bleak.” Those were the words of Odhiambo Asiyo who after six years in medical school and successful internship should be beginning a long career serving patients. But apart from overwork due to the shortage of doctors, Asiyo said junior medics do not get a comprehensive medical cover and can barely afford the services they offer. “Interns have become wheelbarrows. You get infected with Covid-19, go home come back and you are told to continue from where you stopped because no one bothers about your welfare,” Asiyo said. Asiyo's is also the plight of many junior doctors, including Dr Stephen Mogusu who died of Covid-19 Monday a year after his internship. Doctors want the Health Ministry to cater for all outstanding bills for Mogusu's treatment. Dr Mogusu had been posted to a Covid treatment centre in Machakos and had not been paid five months’ salary at the time of his death. Reports indicate the doctor has left a Sh800,000 medical bill. The family and colleagues had raised Sh200,000 to secure his admission into the ICU. Mogusu was the 13th doctor to die of the virus. At least 40 healthcare workers have died to date. More than 1,200 are infected with the virus. Union officials cautioned politicians not to make insensitive remarks against frontline healthcare workers. They hit out at politicians for coming out to defend themselves instead of looking for solutions. “All political actors should be concerned at the plight of healthcare workers in the country and show leadership at this time of the pandemic,” Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists' Union secretary-general Chibanzi Mwachonda said. Mwachonda said Mogusu and the 12 other doctors' deaths had shown the poor welfare, occupational safety and health for all healthcare workers. Medics across the country have raised serious issues on their plight and the hazardous working environment during the pandemic, he said. Mwachonda said some doctors are forced to work even after testing positive for Covid-19 as long as they are not exhibiting the symptoms. “The government should move with speed to resolve the outstanding issues by all health unions. KMPDU reiterates that the suspension of the intended strike for 14 days is an act of goodwill to allow the negotiations,” he said. The union said should their issues remain unresolved with the 14 days, the nationwide strike will begin on December 21 as planned. “Mogusu was employed by the Ministry of Health and deployed to one of the Covid-19 isolation centres in this country. While on duty, he contracted the virus and the family was forced to look for facilities where he could receive treatment,” KMPDU chair Samwel Oroko said. The union said a call to serve Kenyans does not equate to embarking on a suicide mission. It termed it unfortunate that as the pandemic spreads, priority has been given to collecting signatures for the Building Bridges Initiative at the expense of the lives of Kenyans.  (edited by o. owino)