Isiolo Governor Mohamed Kuti has promised to focus on completion of key flagship projects and others that will directly benefit mwananchi in 2021. He wants to transform Isiolo county into a safe commercial hub as the main gateway to Northern Kenya. Among the projects he will target are youth and women empowerment, infrastructure development, health, water, education and tourism. Kuti said he will continue inculcating the culture of social harmony and cohesion. He said his government in collaboration with Kenya School of Government and other development partners will come up with plans that will see youth and women benefit from projects initiated by the county government to transform their standard of living. "Our mandates and priorities are quite clear in the manifesto that I launched three years ago towards transforming this county. We will use development projects to liberate the people of Isiolo county from the difficult social-economic situation they find themselves in as the Covid-19 pandemic continues to bite," the governor said. He was quick to note that this development agenda will be easily realised when residents, leaders and politicians shun divisive politics and work together. The governor in his New Year message that efforts have been put in place to turn around infrastructure development like the one-stop modern market, national standard stadium, construction of county headquarters and the county assembly chamber among others. "The task ahead is enormous as we usher in the New Year," he said. "The needs of our people are many, diverse and urgent. With one of the highest poverty levels, insecurity, recurrent droughts and youth unemployment, we are indeed faced with a myriad of challenges." He said the resources available to the county government are meagre. But the county boss noted that Isiolo is endowed with sizeable human and natural resources which good leadership, collaboration and creative engagement could be utilize to spur social-economic growth. "We must seize the opportunity to create a lasting foundation for the positive transformation of Isiolo. We owe it to the current and future generations," he said. "In the last three years, we have made significant progress towards delivering our promises by establishing the core team to drive the county work." He added:"We sanitised the payroll system to get rid of ghost workers in line with human resource policies and guidelines in public service and streamlined revenue collection through automated systems." Kuti further said his government has made made gains in terms of service delivery in all key sectors while more efforts are put in place to ensuring that delivery of its mandate. He promised to do more in the remaining years. Edited by Henry Makori