The new all-new Corolla Cross landed in Kenya late 2019. A fine masterpiece developed to express a strong sense of sportiness, agility and robustness on the exterior while the interior stands out with spacious room, excellent comfort, vast and highly adjustable luggage capacity and a remarkably quiet cabin. The Corolla Cross has been well designed to seamlessly satisfy your needs and lifestyle with a loaded list of functions and equipment to ensure great versatility. The car comes with the renowned Toyota New Global Architecture or TNGA that guarantees the leading-edge driving performance, coupled with the world-class Toyota Safety Sense which offers the ultimate confidence and peace of mind in all journeys. Here are five features you'll love about the Corolla Cross. 1. Design The Corolla Cross represents an outstanding journey, a new journey that reflects the state-of-the-art design. The exterior uniquely stands out with its stylish and sporty feel yet unveils the sense of luxury in combination with grit. The car comes with a power moonroof, roof rack, LED headlights and taillights, as well as 18-inch alloy wheels. The interior design represents a seamless work of art with the new Terra Rossa red shade as the color, along with the addition of 7-inch Multi Information Display (MID) 2. Performance It is powered by a 1.8-liter gasoline engine that is characterized by superb acceleration and fuel economy. With a power output of 103 kW (138 hp; 140 PS), the average fuel consumption is 15.4 kilometer per liter and the carbon dioxide emission is 150 grams per kilometer. Incorporating the Toyota New Global Architecture (TNGA) and the newly developed torsion beam, the suspension is enhanced for better grip and smooth ride. This also improves the balance in straight driving and cornering. All these features provide a great driving experience giving more agility, control, confidence, and visibility. 3. ComfortThis car brings sheer convenience to all road trips. The All-New Corolla Cross offers a large luggage space with a maximum capacity of up to 487 liters. The cabin is distinguished by large doors that make it easy to enter and exit and has ample headroom making the occupants feel comfortable. The car also features a Power Back Door with Activated Kick Sensor for convenience. There are also Power Adjustable Driver Seats, Dual-Zone Automatic Climate Control, Rear Seats that can be reclined up to 6 degrees, Rear Seat Armrest with Cup Holders, air vents and USB Outlets for rear passengers. 4. Safety Featuring a superlative safety standard, the safety components and environmental performance of the All-New Corolla Cross have been advanced based on the remarkable DNA of Corolla series to ensure driving confidence in all journeys. This is in line with the world renowned Toyota Safety Sense. It includes a Pre-Collision System, Lane Departure Alert with Steering Assist, Dynamic Radar Cruise Control with Lane Tracing Assist, Automatic High Beam, as well as Panoramic View Monitor, Blind Spot Monitor, Rear CROSS Traffic Alert and 7 SRS Airbags 5. Connectivity The all new Corolla Cross is designed to connect to all lifestyles, giving sheer confidence, safety and a worry-free experience. It features a 9-inch touchscreen that is compatible with Apple CarPlay together with T-Connect. This offers an effortless connection between car and the driver giving peace of mind while ensuring that car maintenance will be an easy task. Visit Toyota Kenya branches all over the country and schedule a test drive of the all-new Toyota Corolla Cross.