Kirinyaga Governor Ann Waiguru has advised women leaders to respect one another irrespective of their political differences. Speaking on Thursday at her rural Kagio home in Kirinyaga county, the governor admitted that regardless of the tough political competition that ensued between her and her political rival Martha Karua, she still values and respects her as a woman of high repute. “You’ll never find me fighting a woman. Much as the political outcome in the tight gubernatorial race escalated into a tough court battle, I didn’t utter any word that would hurt or show any form of disrespect towards Martha Karua," Waiguru said. "She is one of the pioneer women leaders in our country and she ought to be respected.” The county boss challenged women to stand by one another by learning how to draw a line between politics and personal affairs as each person has a right to express her political views. “How men play politics is very different. They express their differences openly but behind the scenes, they are very great friends. That’s maturity, and we women leaders should learn from that," she said. "Let us not personalize our differences. Let us lift one another and always rush to defend one of our own when subjected to shame. We are too few to pull each other down.” Waiguru was speaking to a group of upcoming young women leaders from Mt Kenya region dubbed ‘Ari a ruriri’ loosely translated to (‘Daughters of the mountain’) where she was crowned as the group’s chief patron. She promised to use her newly acquired platform to mentor the group on leadership matters. Waiguru also challenged them to rally behind the BBI proposals as it will help unite the country and bring inclusivity to groups who all along have lagged behind in the national leadership positions and decision-making processes. “The BBI will help tackle gender inequality that has not had a cure for a long time. It will ensure Mt Kenya region have a representative at the topmost leadership arm of the government which will thereafter translate into exponential growth in the entire region,” she said. Waiguru also hailed president Uhuru Kenyatta for living up to his constitutional mandate of ensuring peace exists in the country through extending an olive branch to his handshake partner Raila Odinga. She challenged the group to continue supporting the handshake as it birthed BBI. On their part, the faction thanked Waiguru for being an inspiration to the women leadership and always holding her head high much she has gone through turbulent times. “We have been inspired by your effort in bringing an impact in whatever area you serve. As the first CS for Devolution, you 'mid-wifed' Huduma Centres, that have since eased government services to the public," said Waruguru Kiai from the group. "You went on to become one of the first female governors and your work on the ground is well appreciated.” Lydia Mathia, another member, hailed the county chief for building resilience in very difficult moments and coming out stronger each time. The group promised to popularize their mandate in all counties of ensuring women has their space in national decision making.