This was an unprecedented year. It was the year the human race faced an existential threat from the Covid-19 pandemic. That threat is still with us. But despite that threat and lack of knowledge of the coronavirus, one group of professionals risked their lives, and some have died in the line of duty, yet they remained undaunted, sacrificed and saved thousands of lives. They worked in stressful and frightening environments, not just because the virus was little understood, but because in most settings they were under-protected, overworked and vulnerable to infection. The heroism, dedication and selflessness of medical workers, ranging from hospital cleaners, ambulance drivers, lab technicians, nurses and doctors, demonstrated consistently and reassured the country that we will overcome. Like soldiers, health workers faced considerable mental stress. It is often forgotten that as humans, they feel the sorrow of loss when their patients succumb to the virus. They, too, have families, and so will also naturally be fearful that the virus might reach those they love most. It, therefore, did not surprise us when you, the readers, picked medical workers as the Star Person of the Year, 2020. In hospitals around the country, doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers are fighting an enemy that has already killed 1,600 people, infected 92,459 out of which 73,979 have fortunately recovered as of Tuesday. Just like any war, the fight against Covid-19 will result, not just in direct casualties, ruin lives and livelihoods but it will also take a terrible toll on the minds of the many survivors. Unlike the past two years when we nominated and picked the person, this year we asked you to nominate who you thought had gone to extraordinary lengths to change our lives and make our country a better place. We received 2,700 nominations from across the world. We shortlisted 13 and that list comprised healthcare workers, government officials, activists, lawyers, businesspersons and social change agents. We were touched by most of the stories of selflessness in service to humanity by many simple, little-known Kenyans. We tell some of those stories today in a special print and online edition. Siaya nurse Leonard Otieno was voted the most outstanding medical worker. He embodies the sacrifice health workers make in dealing with a contagious and persistent pandemic while training other nurses and educating the public on social media. He is a candle that lights other candles. By awarding the Person of the Year 2020 title to health workers, the Star is asking the country to resolve that we will not let our frontline soldiers become patients. We must do everything to support health workers who, despite their own well-founded fears, are stepping directly into the Covid-19 path to help the afflicted and stop the pandemic in its tracks. Congratulations to all the winners. You are our Heroes and Heroines. 