President Uhuru Kenyatta granted citizenship to the Shona community members who had been struggling for over 50 years as stateless people, during the Jamhuri day celebrations. They were called to receive Certificates of Registration as Kenyan Citizens. The Shona Community arrived from Zimbabwe in the country in the 1950s as missionaries, during the colonial period, but after Kenya gained independence, some immigration laws changed and they were unable to move back. Christopher Samson a member said efforts to seek assistance from the past government’s seeking to go back home has been futile. “Our long time prayers have been heard. We have struggled a lot, lost so many opportunities and a lot of property since we do not have a nationality‚” Samson said. He said being stateless meant one could not get a birth certificate, get a national identity card, open a bank account, open a pin number and these issues have forced them to struggle to earn a living. Kinoo MCA Samuel Kimani said the fact that the over 3,500 members of the Shona community had received birth certificates, they will also receive such Citizenship Certificates. Kimani said these certificates will help them start applying for identity cards so that they can start living like Kenyans. “We have been living with Shona, schooled with them, played together, interacted and shared a lot with them,” the MCA said. Kimani tabled a motion at Kiambu assembly last year seeking the community to be recognised as Kenyans, which was passed by the MCAs. “This is a score to our President because, in 2017, he recognised the Makonde from Mozambique as a Kenyan community‚”  Kimani said. He said, most of them do small businesses from their rental houses as they cannot open a big business because they will be required to apply for licenses, and their pin numbers will be required. Agustine Lokule said the quest to go back to Zimbabwe has come to an end, as he was born in the country in 1982, and he knows much about Kenya than their country of origin and they do not wish to go back to Zimbabwe. "Some of us do not wish to go back to Zimbabwe as we might get it rough than here. We thank President Uhuru for hearing our community's long time quest" Lokule said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris