Interior Cabinet Secretary, Fred Matiang’i has called for objective citizen review of the police to complement the ongoing security sector reforms. Matiang’i said misconduct offences committed by some of the law enforcement officers are never excusable or tolerable, but urged Kenyans to acknowledge the life-threatening situations the officers interact with on a daily basis to keep the country safe. “These are our brothers and sisters. They are working very hard, sometimes under very difficult circumstances. They always run towards danger when we run away from it. They risk their lives for us," he said. "Even during this Christmas season, many of these wonderful people are going to be in dangerous spots, away from their families while we spend time with our families. Pray for them.” The CS told the public their civil liberties and rights are protected by the Constitution and urged them to channel complaints objectively for a solution to be found amicably. The Anonymous Reporting Information System (ARIS) was established for civilians to volunteer information that will help keep police officers in check, and the CS was critical of violence and blanket condemnation against the law enforcers. He spoke on Wednesday at the National Police Service College Embakasi “A” Campus, Nairobi. “Ganging up to go and attack a police station is neither wisdom nor fair behaviour. If there are mistakes, we have a well-structured system in place. If you feel that you have been treated unfairly or aggrieved, just go straight and make a report to the officer in service for further action,” the CS said. He said there are Service Standing Orders that prescribe how police do their work and that 99 per cent of officers are decent people committed to their work. “When one of us makes a mistake, it should not be a basis upon which we condemn the entire service,” the CS said. He also added countless cases brought to his attention by wananchi have been resolved. Matiang'i cited a recent case in Kisii where police are accused of killing a man for violating curfew guidelines, which he described as very unfortunate. He said a team of officers from agencies, including the Independent Policing Oversight Authority (Ipoa) and the Internal Affairs Unit (IAU), is investigating it and a report will be out in three days. “Where mistakes have been committed, whether within our ranks or by the civilian population, we will be guided by law and act accordingly. We will be objective and balanced looking at the facts in that particular case, and we will go the direction the investigations will point us,” the CS said. Matiangi also asked Kenyans to be wary of the coronavirus danger lurking everywhere and called for caution during this festive season. He urged them to exercise civic responsibility in adhering to the containment measures issued by the Ministry of Health and appealed for cooperation with the police in enforcement of the protocols. Matiang'i was accompanied by the Inspector General of Police, Hilary Mutyambai, Deputy Inspector General (APS), Noor Gabow, and the Secretary for Internal Security, Wilson Njega.