Health CS Mutahi Kagwe’s name is domesticated among many Kenyans following his frontline role in the fight against Covid-19. The CS is no stranger to leadership, having started his journey as a Boys Scouts troop leader in the 32nd Nyeri Troop, Kihatu Primary School, in 1971. At that time, he used to mobilise fellow troops in the Scout movement to help old ladies with house chores. After school, they would go to the grannies’ houses, clean their clothes, tidy up their houses and weed their gardens. “I did not even think of being a minister then. I was 10 or 11 years old,” he told the Star in an interview on Tuesday. The CS was a time-keeper in primary school, house prefect in high school and he chaired so many clubs. Kagwe is now the face of the government in the Covid-19 fight, works he has steered to the point where the government is seeking a vaccine. Not all Kenyans will get the Covid-19 vaccine for free, the Health ministry said. Only those who cannot afford. “There will be a cost implication. Discussions are ongoing to see who and how the cost will be footed,” said acting Health director general Patrick Amoth. The ministry also said no one will be forced to take the jab, which means those who refuse it for religious, philosophical or other reasons will be let go. About 12 million doses of Oxford-Astrazeneca vaccine are expected in the country early next year. They will be stored at the National Vaccines Store in Kitengela, run by the Ministry of Health. The vaccine is among the milestones in the health sector, and Kenyans credit Health CS Mutahi Kagwe, a Star Person of the Year. From the vaccines store, the doses will then be redistributed to regional depots countrywide. Kenya has ordered 24 million doses for about Sh10 billion. When the first doses arrive, there is a priority list of who will be vaccinated first, or to whom it will be offered first. Health workers will be the first beneficiaries followed by the elderly, who are vulnerable because of their age, then people who are at risk because of illnesses or preexisting conditions. Frontline workers, such as the police and teachers, will also be prioritised, as well as children with illnesses making them susceptible to Covid-19. The CS told the Star no one will be compelled to take the vaccine. “The vaccine is not mandatory. If someone doesn’t want to be vaccinated, you can’t force them,” he said. “The hallmark of a successful vaccination campaign is that the government must vaccinate as many people as possible. “The only way to do this with some form of equality and equity is ensuring that anybody who cannot afford it must get it for free,” he said. A team headed by Dr Willis Akwale is working on the infrastructure and logistics of handling the vaccines. Kagwe said they are putting in place measures to address key questions. They include: When does it arrive? Where does it arrive? If at an airport, how much time do you spend to clear it? Where and how do you store it? How does it move out of the storage? Who is going to vaccinate people? He exuded confidence the country has a system in place, having vaccinated against other diseases in the past, and ample storage space at the Kitengela drugs storage depot. BAPTISM OF FIRE Kagwe, unlike the case of many state appointees, did not have the luxury of taking time to settle in his new posting by President Uhuru Kenyatta. He took office in February right at the onset of Covid-19 outbreak that has turned out to be the world’s most ravaging pandemic in history. This was at the height of and shock by Kenyans triggered by a China Southern Airlines flight that landed at JKIA with 239 people. Kenyans raised concern, largely on social media, on the country’s preparedness to deal with Covid-19. Then the CS reported the first Covid-19 case in Nairobi on March 13, sending the country in a panic mode. Things have not been the same since then. His clarion call was: “If you continue to behave normally, this disease will treat us abnormally”. “Every day, we continue to sing a song that will continue to save Kenyans. Had we not gone that direction, we don’t know what would have happened.” Kagwe says it has not been an easy journey for health ministers globally, describing his stint as one that “has been a very steep learning curve”. “It is very eventful. Every day comes with its challenges, like taking care of facilities for quarantine and treatment,” he said. “Some challenges we never foresaw include people going on strike at a time we have a pandemic,” the CS said. Some clinical officers are on strike over an unmet Collective Bargaining Agreement. “This is unusual. Nobody else in the world is facing this, nobody is going on strike,” Kagwe said, adding the demands are unreasonable. He allayed fears of a shortage of PPE in the country, saying there is a stock of 300,000 pieces. For the CS, all is not gloomy in his assignment. “There are moments of triumph, where you know you have saved a lot of lives, and know a lot more would be dead had we not taken certain measures.” KEMSA SCANDAL On Kemsa, the CS dismissed assertions he is being slow in decimating the cartels blamed for graft at the ministry. Kagwe said it is his office that invited the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to investigate the Sh7.8 billion Kemsa PPE scandal. “It may be an issue to someone else but for me, it so clear. We have nothing to hide. The ministry has nothing to hide.” The CS added that the ministry “has invited the DCI to look at issues that have been at Afya House”. “Slowly but surely, we are cleaning up the place. I am happy with the progress. If it is Kemsa, the EACC has passed the file to the prosecutor. Everything is on course,” Kagwe said. He said the Kemsa e-procurement portal is up and running as directed by President Kenyatta. The CS further cited progress in transforming NHIF, saying it is hurtling towards being the insurer of choice for Kenyans. He added that the country now has capacity to handle cancer at the Kenyatta University Hospital, with the aim of reducing the cancer burden by Sh8 billion. A machine for manufacturing isotopes has been installed at the facility, said to be a great milestone for early detection of cancer. The CS said the ministry has also acquired land for a mental health facility and is currently piloting telemedicine to cut trips for people in remote areas. On NHIF, 21,000 persons who are unable to buy insurance are being registered in every county at the government’s cost. “A couple of counties have registered. We launched the civil service insurance scheme. No county wanted to be part of NHIF six months ago, but they are trying to come back.” Kenyans will not need to carry their NHIF cards to access services as the system will be biometric. On UHC, the CS said nobody has a perfect health cover structure, adding that UHC is “an opportunity to provide as good a healthcare system as is possible”. Edited by T Jalio