President Uhuru Kenyatta's allies are set to flex their muscles in Western against DP William Ruto and ODM boss Raila Odinga during the Matungu and Kabuchai by-elections. Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju on Monday said the party is keen on fielding candidates in the upcoming polls, raising the stakes in the battle for Western region. “We have asked people to apply so that we see those who are interested before we make a formal declaration soon,” Tuju told the Star on phone. The move could jolt Ruto, whose allies have claimed that their decision to back rival candidates was because Jubilee refused to filed party candidates. On Monday ODM said it had so far received four names of aspirants who want to contest for the seat. “We have four names but we expect the number to increase before December 28, which is the last day parties are required to submit names of aspirants participating in their primaries,” said ODM secretary-general Edwin Sifuna. ODM is keen on winning the Matungu seat though it performed dismally in 2017 in Kakamega county, only managing two parliamentary seats out of the possible 12. ANC won five, while Jubilee bagged four and Ford Kenya one. The nomination of political party candidates and independent aspirants for Matungu is slated for January 11 to 12, next year. Independent Boundaries and Electoral Commission has yet to schedule the Kabuchai parliamentary by-election. The President's wing of Jubilee Party has previously avoided a direct political confrontation with Raila by shying away from fielding candidates in perceived ODM strongholds in the spirit of the handshake. In the just-concluded Msambweni parliamentary contest, Jubilee pulled out in favour of Raila Odinga's ODM candidate Omar Boga. However, Ruto's wing of the Jubilee party which backed independent candidate Faisal Bader pulled a surprise win, beating Boga in the race billed as a BBI referendum test run. Buoyed by the Msambweni by-election, the DP’s allies have warned their opponents of a similar feat in the two by-elections. Smarting from the embarrassing loss in Msambweni, the President's men are spoiling for a battle in what appears to be a strategy to test Ruto's fortunes in Western Kenya. “We are keen in the by-elections,” Tuju, an influential party stalwart, said, lifting the lid on the impending battle for Western region and its 2.2 million votes. The Cabinet Secretary without portfolio is seen as a key confidant of the President and his announcement could be seen as having Uhuru's blessings. Since the March 9, 2018 handshake, Jubilee and ODM have avoided direct confrontation in by-elections, giving Ruto a field day to flex his muscles. Raila boasts of governors in Kakamega, Busia and Vihiga counties, making the region one of his key strongholds. However, Ruto is leaving nothing to chance, visiting the region countless times in his efforts to turn tables against Raila ahead of the 2022 polls. The high-stakes battle is also set to test the Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya boss Moses Wetang'ula's stranglehold of the region's politics. Wetang'ula would be defending the Kabuchai parliamentary seat that was held by the late James Lusweti while Musalia will be battling to recapture Matungu seat of the late Justus Murunga. Ruto's allies have vowed to wrest the two seats from their political opponents and warned rivals to prepare for a replica of the Msambweni loss in Matungu and Kabuchai. Jubilee won four of the 12 MP seats in Kakamega county – Ikolomani, Malava, Navakholo and Mumias East. Former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale insisted that the DP's brigade will be fielding candidates both in Matungu and Kabuchai to protect Ruto's gains in the region. Khalwale, a key Ruto strategist and ally in Western region, however, said the Tangatanga brigade is yet to make a decision on the party to use. “What is certain is that we who support the Deputy President are fielding candidates in Kabuchai and Matungu by-elections. It will become clearer as we move on whether we will field as Jubilee or as another entity,” Khalwale said. Khalwale defended the DP's decision to field candidates saying that was informed by failure by Jubilee to sponsor candidates in by-elections. Jubilee pulled out of the Embakasi South, Ugenya and Msambweni by-elections but reluctantly allowed footballer MacDonald Mariga to run in Kibra following the DP's insistence. Mariga lost to the handshake-backed ODM candidate Bernard Okoth. The Star established that the Tangatanga group has commissioned an opinion poll in Matungu and Kabuchai to select the best candidates to fly their flag. The poll is expected out in the next two weeks to guide the DP's strategy to prepare for what his allies term as another resounding defeat for the handshake. The ANC has settled on one of the hopefuls, Peter Nabulindo, as its candidate in the Matungu by-election. In the 2017 elections, Nabulindo contested on a Ford Kenya ticket and came second with 10,636 votes against Murunga’s 18,088. Kimilili MP Didmas Barasa told the Star that the Tangatanga movement will mount one of the most powerful campaigns ever witnessed in the region in the recent past. “In Matungu and Kabuchai we are going to completely annihilate our rivals,” declared Barasa. Edited by Henry Makori