Former Nairobi City County speaker Alex Ole Magelo has hit out at the Tangatanga brigade led Deputy President William Ruto over their stand on BBI. Magelo, who was the coordinator for Maasai and Kajiado counties in the BBI signatures drive, said the team is non-committed whether to support or oppose the provisions of the Constitutional (Amendment) Bill, 2020 is clearly indications that they are trying to play 2022 politics out of it. “This final draft has the input of all Kenyans regardless of your status and not some few leaders who are pursuing their own interests cannot dictate millions of Kenyans,” said Magelo. He made the remarks after attending a funeral service for Charity Yiapan at St. Peters’ Catholic Church in Narok town on Thursday. The former speaker ruled out consensus calls by the DP team saying that when the BBI process started they complained and their views were looked into in the final draft. “If these people think that they can decide on the destiny of people too bad because they fail to understand that the destiny of this nation is in the hands of Kenyans,” he said. Magelo wondered why the Ruto is crying foul and yet he was recently quoted saying that their views of the ‘hustler’s nation’ were integrated into the BBI Bill. “This shows that they have no problem with BBI. It is only their selfish timing that they want it be included in the 2022 polls and we will not allow them to dictate terms to us,” said Magelo who urged them to stop hoodwinking and giving  Kenyans wrong information on the constitutional change. While thanking residents of Kajiado and Narok counties for turning up in large numbers to append their signatures, Magelo said the BBI was formed on the foundation of the stability of this nation. “President Uhuru Kenyatta and his handshake partner Raila Odinga are on point by bringing stability and harmony in this country and that will spur development, in turn, will improve the lives of Kenyans,” said Magelo. He added that the journey of amending the constitution is unstoppable and those who will oppose the process are ‘enemies of this country.’ "Nobody should have no reasons to support the constitution changes because the interests of all the people are catered in the new document." On Tuesday, while meeting 170 leaders including seven governors, 146 MPs, and Senate at his Karen residence, the DP praised and condemned the provisions in equal measure while saying a referendum was not a priority. He pushed for consensus on BBI and called for a multi-choice referendum to coincide with the 2022 General Election.