Kenyans living on the border have turned to Uganda for treatment. They said private hospitals at the border charge exorbitant fees, pushing them to cross into Uganda as Kenyan health workers’ strike continues. Nurses and clinical officers went on strike on December 7, disrupting health operations in all public hospitals in the country. They were on Monday joined by doctors, who vowed to remain off duty until their demands were met. On Sunday, when the Star visited a public hospital in Tororo in eastern Uganda, a dozen Kenyans were at the facility seeking treatment. A nurse on duty told the Star the number of people seeking medical attention at the hospital has been rising steadily since Kenyan medics went on strike. The Star sought to find out the total number of people from Kenya who had visited the hospital from the time the strike started but the numbers were not readily available. The hospital in-charge mandated to share the data was away. “I have been having chest problems. I went to the hospital back home but there was no one to attend to me, that is why I am here,” 19-year-old Amos Oruchum, a resident of Malaba town, said at the Ugandan hospital. Oruchum said he rode to Tororo, which is approximately 10 kilometres from Malaba, on a bicycle. He was expected to return to the facility on Monday and Tuesday for medical review, he said. Another patient, who did not want to share his name, said the government should understand the plight of Kenyan health workers and convene a meeting to find a solution to the strike. “The government is letting us down. What are these demands by doctors and nurses that they can’t sit down, discuss and agree?” he asked. “Every crisis has a solution.” He urged President Uhuru Kenyatta and his handshake partner Raila Odinga to give priority to the health of Kenyans. An unhealthy population, he said, has limited capacity to develop the country. The decision by Kenyans, especially those living along the border, to cross into Uganda for treatment reverses earlier trends where Ugandans would come to the Kenyan side of the border for treatment. Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong has attributed the crossover to the development of Kenya's health industry. Earlier this year, when Ojaamong officiated the opening of new female wards at the Kocholya Level 4 Hospital in Teso North, he said the Kenyan health industry has been supportive of the Ugandan population owing to the high numbers coming into the country for treatment. Kenyans seeking treatment in Uganda told the Star they have to strictly follow the Health ministry protocols in the fight against Covid-19. Annet Amongin, whom the Star met in another hospital in Tororo, said Ugandan health authorities are strict on foreigners who cross the border into their country. “If they identify you as a foreigner, and you have no mask for instance, you are taken for quarantine immediately,” she said. She said that as long as one follows the coronavirus regulations issued by the Health ministry, one is free to be attended to while in hospital. The Kenya-Uganda border in Malaba is partially open and nationals from the two countries are free to cross the Malaba One-Stop Border Post. The situation in public health facilities in Kenya has for the last three weeks been deteriorating due to the nationwide strike. Among the demands striking health workers are making include comprehensive health insurance, Covid-19 treatment, PPE, higher risk allowances, promotions, designations, back pay and a national health services commission. On Monday, Busia Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi said it was unfortunate that the striking medics had defied calls to end the strike and attend to Kenyans. He said most of the health workers’ demands are supposed to be addressed by the national government. “As a county government, we have tried our level best to meet the demands of our health workers,” Mulomi said in Busia. He said Busia was a sacrificial lamb in the latest move by medics to call for national industrial action. “We have paid all salaries and allowances approved by the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC), any enhanced allowances will be subject to SRC approval.” “We also implemented the employment of all health workers who were on contract to permanent status, interviews seeking employment of 10 more doctors have already been conducted to show our unwavering commitment."