 Garissa elders have been asked to take a vanguard position in preaching peaceful co-existence with neighbouring communities. The call came from Governor Ali Korane on Monday when he hosted Abukar Abdalla clan elders at his residence. Abukar Abdalla is sub-clan of Samawadal clan. Korane said insecurity is one of the greatest impediments to regional development. He spoke amid rising insecurity along the Garissa-Isiolo border. Nine people died at Quri recently in the latest clashes. “It's time we learnt to tolerate each other.  We are all brothers and sisters at the end of the day. Furthermore, we confess the same faith (Islam). “Elders play an integral part in uniting communities. Regrettably, they can also destabilise relationships and destroy the same communities. I appeal to you to always weigh your words before uttering them,” Korane said. He also urged political and opinion leaders to stop whipping up people's emotions as in most cases communities listen to their leaders and do what they say without questioning the motives. On Wednesday last week, Korane visited Ladgera sub-county to condole with families that had lost relatives when Isiolo and Garissa herders clashed at Quri. Violence has been the subject of politicians in the neighbouring counties have in the last few days with each side accusing the other of aggression. The governor is said to have called on residents to arm themselves to protect their homesteads. This prompted Isiolo Woman Representative Rehema Jaldesa to accuse Korane of fanning animosity and supporting banditry. She said Isiolo residents were ready to protect themselves. Both leaders have been unapologetic with their utterances. The governor has on several occasions in the past two months met clan elders. He says his agenda is to ensure that communities live harmoniously ahead of the 2022 general elections.  "I call upon the communities to observe restraint as we resolve the protracted resource-based conflict along the Garissa-Isiolo border," he said. He regretted the "ugly incident" and pleaded for honesty in the pursuit of peace in the region. “It is time we sober up, name and shame the militants causing the death of innocent people.” The elders were appreciative of the governor's efforts to foster unity among neighbouring communities, noting that peace and development go hand in hand. Elder Abdi Mohamed said a lasting solution must be found to the violence along the border. He said the war of words will only serve to escalate an already bad situation. “A healthy and robust civic engagement is essential for inclusive development. Real transformational change in the lives and livelihoods of our communities can only be achieved when we are united,” Mohamed said. 