President Uhuru Kenyatta on Thursday presided over the official handover to the military the management of government civilian-owned planes in the country. The head of state also launched the National Air Support Department (NASD) at Wilson Airport in Nairobi County. NASD is a multi-agency unit created to consolidate and ensure efficient utilization of national aviation assets. The building to house the new operational team has been renovated.  It belonged to Kenya Revenue Authority. It will see all planes owned by the Kenya police, Kenya Wildlife Service, Kenya Forest Service, Kenya Power, Kenya Pipeline, Ketraco among others transferred and managed by personnel from the Kenya Defence Force’s Kenya Airforce. Even though officials said the move is aimed at only managing procurement and maintenance aspects of the planes, insiders said a military Brigadier is in charge of the new outfit based at the Wilson Airport, Nairobi under a multi-agency arrangement. Brig Chrispin Odhiambo of the Kenya Airforce and formerly of the National Defence College is the new commandant of the outfit and will be deputized by the National Police Service Airwing commandant Col Rodgers Mbithi. This is the latest move by the president to involve the military in civilian affairs in a series. He has defended the move saying the military are reliable. Defense Cabinet Secretary Monicah Juma, Chief of Defence Forces Gen Robert Kibochi and Inspector General of police Hilary Mutyambai are among those who attended the low key event. This is the latest move by the president to transfer civilian operations to the military in a trend that has seen the personnel now entrenched in major institutions. Officials aware of the plans revealed the planes which include helicopters and fixed wings ones will be rebranded and be run under the command of the airforce for accountability purposes. This is the latest move by the president to give the military powers to manage what has been traditionally the domain of the civilians.NPS has seven serviceable choppers. The airwing has 21 pilots and 39 trainee pilots who form part of 150 staff there. KWS Airwing was established in 1990 with over 40 pilots to provide air support services to wildlife management across the country. The airwing, provides a diverse range of services in support of the KWS wildlife management and protection activities with its fleet of 12 light aircraft and three larger aircrafts. In addition, KWS now boasts of four hangars in Meru, Kamboyo in Tsavo West National Park, Mweiga in Aberdares, Nyeri and Wilson airport. KWS Airwing has been in operation for more than 30 years. Kenya Pipeline, KFS, Ketraco have one chopper each. Kenya Power has explained theirs are leased