Bidco United head coach Anthony Akhulia has bemoaned lack of home advantage in their top flight matches after failing to register their first win in the opening three matches. The debutants were hoping to stage their home matches at the Thika Stadium but the facility is among those yet to be approved for league matches. Bidco, who earned their promotion to the elite league after finishing second in the National Super League, have gathered two points out of a possible nine. The Thika-based outfit have been forced to play at the Moi Stadium Kasarani and the Utalii grounds, thanks to the state of their home ground. Akhulia, who returned to the technical bench during their two-all draw against Kariobangi Sharks last Saturday expressed hope that the renovations works at Thika will be completed soon to allow them stage their home matches there. The former holding midfielder at the club missed the opening two rounds against Western Stima and AFC Leopards due to illness. "We are not enjoying home comfort in our league matches and we are hoping to play there once the renovations works are over. We expect league management to inspect the facility after the works," he said Akhulia, who was delighted after making his first top flight appearance on the technical bench, said he was keen to seal the loopholes in the defence which he faulted for allowing Sharks to come from behind twice to deny them their maiden win in the senior league. "I am happy to be back to the back after missing the first two matches. It is a game we should have won had it not been for lapses in concentration by the defence. Although we lost our advantage twice, I am pleased with the way the we played against a tough side and at their backyard," he said. Besides tightening the defence, Akhulia revealed plans to sharpen the attacking front before their next match. Prior to their Sharks encounter, the club had endured a  180 minute-long goal drought but will have Pistone Mutamba and Nelson Chieta to thank for breaking the duck.  