The NMS has been told to get rid of non-engineers submitting designs to tackle the recurring problem of collapsed buildings and failed infrastructure projects. Institution of Engineers of Kenya (IEK) boss Nathaniel Matalanga on Friday urged Nairobi Metropolitan Services director-general Mohammed Badi to act swiftly. He also appealed to the Council of Governors to help other counties do the same. "We expect the NMS will take this aspect of our contribution seriously and ensure only professionals who have complied with the engineering ACT 2011 are allowed to submit the drawing reports to the county government and carry out duties,” he said. The IEK Council 2020-22 embarked on the full implementation of the IEK Strategic Plan to increase membership to 20,000 in the next five years and raise IEK visibility to influence infrastructure and industrial development. This is set to promote excellence in engineering for members through expert thematic panels, revenue growth to more than Sh600 million, governance, and institutional strengthening by looking for international training and capacity building opportunities for members. Over the years, there have been frequent cases of collapsed buildings within the country and this has become a major concern among players in the local construction industry. In 2015, President Uhuru Kenyatta commissioned an audit of all buildings in Nairobi. It was found that only 42 per cent of city structures were fit for habitation. Last year, a six-storey residential building collapsed in Embakasi and left at least four people dead and 29 others injured. Common causes of buildings collapse in Kenya are weak foundations, unqualified labour, greed for wealth, corruption, poor structural design and substandard materials. Last month, the Engineers Board of Kenya, in partnership with the National Bank of Kenya, unveiled smart ID cards for engineers to weed out quacks. The need for the identification cards arose from the realisation that there was no mechanism for engineers to identify themselves to the public or relevant authorities.