Since 80-year-old Hillow Noor was born, he has not seen piped water in Tarbaj, Wajir. “I only happen to see it when I visit my children who reside in Wajir town,” Noor said. But on Thursday, Noor and hundreds of residents witnessed the commissioning of Tarbaj water supply project. "I feel like I'm daydreaming. It will for sure take me sometime before the idea that we have piped water sinks into my mind." Tarbaj, one of the oldest towns in Wajir county, has been without a reliable source of water for more than 100 years. Residents have been relying on shallow wells and water trucking by the county government. The Thursday ceremony was presided over by Governor Mohamed Abdi and was attended by officials from Northern Water Works Development Agency. The project was undertaken by the government at a cost of Sh125 million. On Thursday, it was officially handed over to the county government for operations and maintenance. Elder Noor said lack of reliable water supply in the area not only led to the deaths of many animals but also forced many residents to relocate to Wajir town. “Our town [Tarbaj] could have been far in terms of development, but lack of water has retarded development. We have every reason to thank God for answering our prayers. At least we can afford a smile,” he said. Resident Ambia Hassan said women can now concentrate on other businesses that generate income since they will no longer be required to trek long distances in such of water. “Our mothers and daughters, some as young as three years, wake up very early and start looking for this precious commodity. Unfortunately, most of the time they end up not even getting it. It is a story that you don’t even want to hear,” she said. Governor Abdi said his government is passionate about providing water to all areas. “I'm particularly filled with joy and pride to witness the commissioning of this project. This is in line with my manifesto to improve access to clean and safe portable water.” He said his administration has partnered with the national government and donors to support major water projects in the county. Areas to be targeted include parts of the county with acute shortages of underground water sources but with large catchment basins for rainwater harvesting. The governor said additional piping and water reticulation will be undertaken by the county to supply water to many settlements in Tarbaj. 