The 40th Maragoli cultural celebration has officially been called off by Vihiga County Commissioner Ochilo Oyugi. Oyugi said he has suspended the event due to huge numbers that attend the event at the municipal grounds citing that it won’t be easy to observe covid-19 protocols. “Bunyore, Tiriki and Terik as well will remain suspended to ensure the safety of our people,” Oyugi said. The commissioner was addressing the press on Thursday at the county headquarters where he was issuing the Huduma number cards to the public. “Sanitizers, social distancing, masks and other related covid-19 protocols in these functions will not meet the standards and thus why we are suspending them,” commissioner cited. The event happens between December 27 and 30. Local sports within the area will not be conducted as well as most of the people will not be able to observe state orders he cited. “KPL and NSL they are observing state orders and we don’t have fans but in our local jurisdiction we are not able to comply with that apart from suspending the tournaments,” he said. Oyugi said Sub-county security team and covid-19 response team play your part and ensure those events are not there. Previously Sabatia MP Alfred Agoi and Ernest Kagesi Vihiga had said the Maragoli fete will not be there in order to face state orders. The state had limited functions to 100 people and mandated social distancing and wearing of face masks, which would pose problems for the event. “The ceremony is not only attended by Maragolis. Other people across the country join us, and it attracts crowds of 30,000-50,000 people at the municipal,” he said. “So with such limits, the best way is only to suspend it.” Agoi said they don’t want to defy state orders or expose residents to the Covid-19 pandemic. “The Maragoli culture is not killed, it’s there and will remain to be there and will be celebrated year in and year out. But with the situation at hand now, we have to put things in that order,” he said. He said once the country goes back to normalcy in 2021, the celebration will resume. Vihiga MP Ernest Kagesi said the 60 days declared by the head of state go up to early January in 2021, so the event could be held thereafter. “But this came after having wide consultations with stakeholders and the cultural committee members,” he said. “We thank the steering committee for coming up with open minds with room for discussion over the issue.”