Garissa women activists have petitioned the government to constitute a special committee to, among other things, critically assess the maslaha (rape mediation) system with a view to abolishing it. The activists drawn from various local organisations are concerned by rising sexual and gender-based violence in Garissa county. They handed their petition to deputy county commissioner Benard ole Kipury on Wednesday. Maslaha is a traditional rape arbitration mechanism in the Somali community. The system, argue the activists, favours the culprits. They want the system streamlined to comply with the Constitution of Kenya and laws governing sexual offences. "It should not be abused as an alternative justice system,” the petition states. The petitioners want the enforcement of the Sexual Offences Act, 2006,  Prohibition of Female Genital Mutilation Act, 2011 and the presidential directive on ending FGM by 2022. They blamed the long closure of schools for increased numbers of child marriages and female genital mutilation. The lobbyists appealed to the government to use chief's barazas for community sensitisation on sexual and gender-based violence. They said rescue centres for sexual and GBV survivors should be set up and equipped in each of the sub-counties. The petition was drafted by Pastoral Girl Initiative, Inua Girls, Silver Lining Kenya other women-led organisations. The lobbyists said girls and young women should be involved in policy formulation and implementation of gender projects. Kipury acknowledged that maslaha was an impediment to successful prosecution of sexual violence offences in the county. He said the administration was collaborating with the Judiciary for hastened hearing of cases appertaining sexual offences against minors. “Guardians or parents of victims who are mostly not privileged can be compromised, hence prosecuting such cases might be a problem. We will , however, ensure victims get justice,” he told the activists at his office. The lobbyists have been observing 16 days of activism against gender-based violence since November 25.