It may only be a matter of when and not if a renowned senator will decamp from ODM. Sources whisper to Corridors of Power that the man’s heart is no longer in the Orange Democratic Movement (party headquarters pictured). He is only marking time to gauge the reactions of his constituents. As the Msambweni by-election vote count was ongoing, the man kept tossing out statements ridiculing his own party to the amazement of his supporters. ODM insiders are said to have noted his lack of loyalty and put him on notice. Will they crack the whip? Are they ready for another hard-fought by-election? *** The diplomatic feud between Kenya and Somalia over various Somali 'sovereignty issues' has left a Kenyan expert with egg on his face. Word has it that the professional has been feeding Kenyan authorities with the wrong advice that always backfired badly. The man who is said to be working hand in hand with a renowned political think tank is now a subject of ridicule. It's said that an alternative group of foreign policy advisers is about to approach President Uhuru Kenyatta to reconsider the services of the 'expert' in his government. The expert has always claimed his information and insights are impeccable and invaluable. *** Hard financial times are indeed here with us and MPs have not been spared. A Member of Parliament from Rift Valley is said to have been so hard pressed that he reached out to his own constituents to fund a social event he recently held. The lawmaker is said to have sent out a distress financial appeal through bulk messaging to all the contacts from his phones. A little bird in the know says the legislator who is serving his second term also formed several WhatsApp groups. There, he asked group members to even donate millet and sorghum for the event. *** Two ODM officials, perhaps smarting from a bitter loss in the Msambweni by-election, held a long meeting at a Nairobi hotel on Wednesday morning. It was not clear why the ODM lawmakers met a Jubilee lawmaker at the restaurant located downtown. The leaders were seen conversing in hushed tones as the Jubilee leader continuously nodded in the affirmative. It is usually rare for Members of Parliament to visit downtown hotels for meetings like the kind that was just witnessed. The session lasted for about three hours but the details of the session remain scant, as the ODM officials left shortly before lunch, leaving behind the Jubilee honcho. 