Hundreds of past and present athletes converged at Nyayo Stadium, Nairobi on Tuesday to commemorate the 70th anniversary of Athletics Kenya. The festivity has been in the making for the better part of the year since AK's executive committee mooted the idea, which was subsequently ratified at an Annual General Meeting. It was a trip back to the 1950s when the roots of Kenyan athletics were planted by Messrs Archie Evans and Derek Erskine, who founded the Kenya Athletics Amateur Association in 1950 — AK's predecessor. Outside of the main stadium were various tents erected by various stakeholders —including the federations' 16 affiliates — showcasing the various memorabilia of specific athletes that have contributed to Kenya's reputation as a powerhouse. Each tent was adorned with photographs of numerous legends complete with eye-opening information on how they made their mark in the sport. At AK’s main tent, for example, was the pair of spikes worn by Lydia Stephens, who was one of the country's first female Olympians. “I call these shoes ‘Aztec Gold’, the ones I wore at the 1968 Olympics in Mexico City. It reminds me of the exciting times that we experienced when we competed at that global level,” she said. Stephens, who competed in the 100m and 200m categories, reveals that she passed down the spikes to her children who wore them to their current state. “The colour of the shoes matches the jacket that I wore when going to the Olympics. I cherish these shoes and now that they are part of athletics history in this country excites me,” Stephens says. A tour of the exhibition tents was a further reminder of the abundance of talent that lies in the sprints category, which has for long been perceived as the country’s Achilles heel. At the entrance of Coast region’s tent was a poster of Seraphino Antao, who was the first Kenyan to win a gold medal in the 100m and 200m at the 1962 Commonwealth Games in Australia. The Nyanza North region was also proud to display a poster of Alice Adala — also known as the ‘Sprinting Queen’ — who set a national record in the 100m and 200m at the 1971 national championships. Moreover, the 70th anniversary was also a history lesson on the immense transformation that athletics equipment has undergone. It is inconceivable that pioneer athletes in shotput had to use a stone instead of the modern shotput whereas pole vaulters had to rely on a bamboo stick — such was the sobering history lesson as far as athletics is concerned. Two-time world marathon champion Catherine Ndereba could not help but imagine how she would have loved to compete under present circumstances. “Athletics has changed a lot in terms of technique and science. I support the use of technology. If I had used them, I believe I could have run faster,” Ndereba says. As those in attendance converged in the main stadium, the celebratory mood was in full swing. It was smiles all around as upcoming world beaters got to interact with some of the legends who they have only heard about. Hezekiah Nyamau's narration of the psychological tension that characterised the Kenyan team's 4x400m relay win at the 1972 Olympics left the audience in stitches. It was a timely reminder that crossing the finish line ahead of other competitors is no walk in the park, rather, a product of persistence, discipline and the occasional doubts. For newly-crowned half marathon world record holder Kibiwott Kandie, the opportunity to attend the festivity is the right anecdote to spur him towards leaving a legacy of his won. "The decision to bring us together with some of the legendary athletes is a noble idea. I am happy to be in the same venue as my role model Paul Tergat and hope to match his achievements now that my career has only just begun," Kandie said. As the celebrations culminated in the cutting of a cake, everyone in the stadium was afforded the opportunity to partake in the sweet fruits of athletes' hard work by symbolically tasting a piece of the cake. "Kenyan athletes have achieved so much for the country and enhanced its reputation. When you meet other people from other countries, they express their awe of how an athletics powerhouse we are," Ndereba added. Despite the rich history of athletics, the consensus among those in attendance was that the next 70 years should be richer. The burden of creating such memorable moments for the country now lies on the shoulders of the current generation of athletes — notwithstanding the ugly head of doping that threatens to rear its head. Regardless, Athletics Kenya and other stakeholders have declared war on the vice to ensure that the country's medal haul is on the back of clean and fair competition. A toast to many moments like this will always be welcome years to come. 