A Meru MCA has rejected claims by Governor Kiraitu Murungi that he disburses Sh20 million annually to them for development. Assembly Minority leader Ayub Bundi wants the governor to clarify his remarks, denying ever receiving such funds at any time in the past two financial years. He said the said money is under the executive and no MCA has powers to control its utilisation. Bundi, the Abogeta Central representative, said Kiraitu is distancing himself from his own failures through blame games. Budi touts himself as a possible running mate of Agriculture CS Peter Munya in the 2022 governor race. Munya was outvoted by Kiraitu in 2017. Kiraitu had accused the MCAs of being inconsiderate, questioning why they castigate his administration for failed or incomplete projects, yet he had allocated millions of shillings for local development. He spoke in Central Imenti during the burial of Mzee Stephen Kaburu, the father of nominated MCA Jane Kanana. “In Abogeta Central, we channelled Sh40 million for the last two years. All MCAs you see here, I have issued each of them Sh20 million per year. There are MCAs who have utilised the money very well. If it has not done anything in your ward, ask your MCA. We didn’t ask voters to give us leadership to boast but be servant leaders,” Kiraitu said. He said he was ready to work with Central Imenti MP Kirima Ngushine and allocate funds to tarmac some roads in the constituency. At the same time, the county chief drummed up support for constitutional amendments through the Building Bridges Initiative. He said the proposed changes will pass with or without the support of residents but added that they should join the winning team. "I led one side of the Banana-Orange referendum when we were defeated [in 2005]. I was in the national secretariat for the 2010 referendum and there was 20 per cent [proposals] the church had opposed, saying it had to be rectified. "Even if Meru vote no, the BBI will pass. I'm not supporting it because it will pass but because it has a solution to our pathetic roads, electricity, water and so forth,” he said. Kiraitu said the proposed 35 per cent revenue allocation to the counties means more development at the grassroots. He described the BBI as a market with a variety of commodities purchased depending on the taste of the buyer. “In a market, you will meet dancers who confuse you and you forget the main purpose of going there. There are people like those opposed to the BBI. As a leader—like Moses who led Israelites to the Promised Land, a place he never knew before—let me lead you. "There's enough time between now and June and we will enlighten people so you have a choice to vote no or yes; it is democracy. What matters is development,” Kiraitu said.  Edited by F'Orieny