ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi's spokesman Kabisu Kabatesi has hit out at DP William Ruto for his attempts to undermine political bigwigs from Western. Kabatesi blasted Ruto for his political overtures to have Mudavadi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula enter into a pre-2022 political marriage with him. He said at no time have Mudavadi and Wetang'ula lacked political partners to work with for them to seek company of a person "whose character is wanting”. “The two welcome political partnerships underpinned by integrity,” Kabatesi said in a blistering attack on the DP. Ruto has sustained calls for the two leaders to work with him ahead of the next general election in the wake of a bitter falling-out with President Uhuru Kenyatta. Ruto on Saturday chided the two leaders over what he termed a tendency to snub him despite his many 'calls' to have them strike a political deal. “I always call them. At least tell them to pick up my phone calls. Maybe they fear my calls because they think I want to ask for their votes," Ruto said. He spoke during the burial of Maurice Mabonga Wanjala, the father of Bumula MP Moses Mabonga. But Kabatesi said before Ruto can even reach out to Mudavadi and Wetang'ula, he should first exorcise his demons in Jubilee Party. “He must face the truth that he is part of the mess the Jubilee government has brought on Kenyans. He cannot wriggle out by pretending to be impoverished Kenyans’ Robin Hood,” Kabatesi said. He said Ruto’s attempt to appropriate and personalise government projects like he did demonstrates a devious character and desperation to cling on any straw to survive the political onslaught he faces. Kabatesi said Ruto has panicked because of the two Western leaders' unity and efforts to bring together the Luhya nation. He termed it ridiculous for a man who has been claiming of massive support in Western to seek a forced marriage with Mudavadi and Wetang'ula. “If Ruto is so sure of support from Western people, it makes little sense for him to seek a forced marriage with Mudavadi and Wetang'ula. His bravado hides a worried and panicking man,” Kabatesi said. He said the DP plays politics of deceit and buying political support using money whose sources are suspect. “He (Ruto) covets and is infatuated by hubris. It is hubris that drives him to undermine his own government and oppose his boss, the President,” Kabatesi said. He said Ruto's arrogance blinds him to go to the backyard of Western leaders and issue an ultimatum. “Ruto is showing all the signs that give meaning to the adage that ‘pride comes before a fall.' "The two leaders aren’t ready to offer Ruto a shoulder to cry on; not until he reforms his waywardness and makes peace with his partners in Jubilee. He cannot be demanding partnership when his house is burning,” he said.