Senators have ordered the Environment ministry to save Lake Magadi in Kajiado from destruction by removing silt in nine months. In a report tabled in the Senate, the lawmakers said the lake faces serious environmental challenges due to massive siltation that threatens its existence. The lake is the world's largest source of soda ash, a major foreign currency earner. Many lakes in Rift Valley are overflowing and siltation is a major factor. The report says increasing sedimentation caused by run-off from over-cultivation and other activities is significantly reducing the lake's depth. “Siltation in the lake is a grave problem and ought to be stopped forthwith," the report by the Lands, Environment and Natural Resources committee reads. The report follows a petition by Kajiado residents, through Senator Philip Mpaayei, seeking the Senate’s intervention to save the lake. The heavy siltation is largely caused by human activities that have stripped the soil from upper areas. These include land clearing, logging, overgrazing cultivation and charcoal burning that cause soil erosion. Infrastructure projects, including the Mahiu-Narok Road and the SGR, have also contributed to the problem. The committee chaired by Nyandarua Senator Mwangi Githiomi recommended that Treasury CS Ukur Yatani immediately allocate funds to the Environment and Forest ministry to remove silt and prevent further erosion. “A status update on the allocation of funds should be submitted to the committee within six months of the tabling of this report and not later than  May 31, 2021,” the report reads. Once the funds are allocated, the Environment ministry is to submit a report not later than August 31 next year. The panel also wants the Environment ministry and Nema to collate information on charcoal burning in catchment areas of Lake Magadi, with a view to ensuring it is sustainable. A report is required by February 9. The Environment ministry is planting trees in the catchment area to rehabilitate forests and control soil erosion. A report is required in three months. The committee also wants Agriculture CS Peter Munya to implement sustainable and environmentally efficient crop cultivation and livestock grazing s in the water catchment areas. Senators instructed the Transport Ministry to survey infrastructure projects and report on the removal of debris. (Edited by V. Graham) 