The Sports Disputes Tribunal has issued an order staying Football Kenya Federation's decision to suspend Mathare United and Zoo Kericho from the Kenyan Premier League. Both teams moved to the Tribunal yesterday morning seeking urgent intervention in FKF's controversial move to send them packing from the top tier after efforts to have them endorse the Media Rights and Commercial Rights Agreement between the federation and StarTimes hit a dead end. The axe ultimately fell on Mathare and Zoo last week on Friday after FKF's  48-hour ultimatum, which required them to append signature to the deal elapsed. However, Justice John Ohaga has temporarily quashed the decision pending hearing and determination set for  December 22, 2020 at 21.30 pm. "Pending hearing and determination of this application inter-partes, this Honourable Tribunal is pleased to issue temporary orders compelling the respondent to immediately involve the petitioner in the Football Kenya Federation Premier League 2020-2021 season league fixtures and to afford the petitioner all its rights as member of the respondent accrued by virtue of participating in the said league," said the order. "That pending hearing and determination of this application inter-parties, conservatory orders do issue staying the decision of the respondent's National Executive Committee  of 9/12/2020 suspending the petitioner from all footballing activities for failing to endorse the Media Rights and Commercial Rights Agreement between the respondent and StarTimes Media (Kenya) Co. Ltd of 29/9/2020. The court also stopped the federation from terminating Mathare and Zoo players' contracts and excluding the teams from the FKF Premier League. "Conservatory orders do issue staying the respondent's decision of 13/12/2020 unilaterally revoking the registration of and terminating the petitioner's players' contracts and excluding the petitioner from the FKF-PL 2020-2021 league fixtures," read the order. Mwendwa had said on Sunday that the players were now at liberty to join other clubs after their teams were kicked out of competition. “We have opened a 14-day transfer window for Mathare United and Zoo FC players to move clubs after they were suspended from the league. We have also amended the table to 16 teams,” Mwendwa said. SDT further compelled FKF to allow the two teams to undertake the mandatory Covid-19 tests as had been subjected to other top tier sides prior to the start of the league. ".This Honourable Tribunal is pleased to issue temporary orders to immediately involve the petitioners' players and staff in the respondent's pre-league championship Covid-19 PCR Testing as required by the September 2020 Ministry of Sports guidelines for resumption of sporting activities," read the order. The Tribunal has further cautioned FKF against congesting fixtures for the two teams when they kick off the season. "Pending hearing and determination of this application inter-parties, this Honourable Tribunal be pleased to issue temporary orders of injunction restraining or in any other way forbidding the respondent from requiring the petitioner to play more than two matches within ten days with a minimum of 72 hours between matches or otherwise unfairly congest the petitioner's league fixtures. 