Jotham Banda, Kyla Nyambura and Hope Christine were some of the standout athletes as the two-day Mombasa Open Tong-IL Moo-Do International Martial Arts Championship kicked off on Sunday at the Aga Khan Academy Multipurpose Hall with participants undertaking demonstration of forms. Banda amassed 8.98 points to take top honours in the men's category ahead of Harun Gatogo and Samuel Njaga, who scored 8.5 and 8.42 points respectively. In the under-18 girls category, Christine was victor with 8.76 points ahead of Nina Inan and Lavender Mmbone with 8.7 and 7.44 points respectively. Nyambura had to fend off fierce opposition from Christine Mayaq to emerge victorious with 8.6 points ahead of the latter's 8.5 points. Demonstration of forms offers participants the chance to showcase their skills in the Tong-IL Moo-Do as far in as sequential movements are concerned after which one is graded on their athletic ability, power, speed, agility and articulation of punches, blocks and stance. Kenya Tong-Il-Moo-Do Federation president Clarence Mwakio hopes the Mombasa Open  will be the start off a flurry of sporting activities in the coming year. "After this championship, we look forward to next year and we are hoping that we will be able to participate in future championships. We will see as time goes,"  Mwakio said. The tournament — in its eighth edition — was officially opened by Grandmaster Takamistu Hoshiko, president of the World Tong IL Moo Do Federation. Countries that have sent participants include Zambia, Brazil, Thailand, South Korea, Zambia, Cote d’Ivoire, Congo Brazzaville, Nigeria, Philippines, Iran and Turkey. "Kenya has enlisted up to 100 participants in the championship who have been enrolled into six different categories according to age and categories," Mwakio said.  The championships consists of different age categories raging from under-18 to 49 years. Furthermore, participants will pit their wits against one another in different categories, including special techniques, forms and sparring and weight categories. Weight category include bantam, feather, light, middle, light, heavy weight and super heavy. Preparations for the championships were hampered by the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic that halted all sporting activities in the country and worldwide.