Deputy President William Ruto has warned a section of public servants against being used by some politicians to misuse their power. Speaking in Nakuru on Monday during the burial of Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri’s mother, Ruto said that those trying to destabilise the existing peace among the communities have ill motives and will not go along with it. The DP said that the public servants who are being misused in politics are taking the country back to the times of negative ethnicity. “Instead of dealing with crimes in the country, they now want to incite the public on ethnicity,” Ruto said. He added that "I want to say for the record that the abuse of criminal investigation and criminal prosecution targeting people because of their tribe or political affiliation is the wrong thing to do," He said that some of the people had hugely benefited from the politics of hatred, and ethnicity when the country was not stabel, and have realised that there is nothing left for them because of peace across the country. “They are now trying to use the public servants to disrupt peace among the Rift Valley residents…the civil servants have abandoned their work, now doing politics of ethnicity…are doing Satan’s work and I want to promise you that they will not succeed.” He said that some of the actions from the investigation and prosecution departments have proved that they are targeting some people because of their political affiliation. The DP urged the public officers in charge of protecting the country not to use their offices for the wrong thing, which might be dangerous to the country. “You are taking our country backward and you will not succeed. We will pray that against you and you will not go very far.” He added that serving the country and having political targets at hand will not work. “They have taken it a notch higher, and they want to use criminal investigation and prosecution to incite tribalism and tension in Kenya. We are telling them that you are getting too dangerous grounds and it is not right, you need to stop.” Ruto has also called upon members of the public to take part in shaping peace prosperity in the country by not voting to power people who will perpetuate hate and ethnicity in the country. He concluded that the peace being enjoyed across the country was not achieved by the government, but was due to the decision taken by all Kenyans. "The peace we enjoy in Kenya was not brought by the government or Security agencies, It was brought about by us the people and it is us who will maintain it." Kinoti was earlier forced to clarify that he was not reopening the cases that were investigated and closed and rather was to prove threats from some. This was after an uproar across the country and criticism from the president who said it unnecessary move.