Elders in Kerio Valley have proposed extra measures to finally wipe out bandit attacks that have caused death and suffering for many years. Attacks have declined dramatically over three years to due community peace accords, however, elders want the state to commit more resources to security and development Some elders propose a military barracks be built in Kapedo, which is claimed by both Pokot and Turkana communities. They say the presence of KDF and military operations will improve security. Kapedo has recently witnessed bandit attacks that have claimed the lives of residents and police officers. Elders blame the attacks on the row between communities over ownership of the Kapedo market. Elders led by Michael Kolum said they had already sent the government a proposal to turn Kapedo into a military barracks for KDF training to help end violence. “We believe a military barracks in Kapedo area and other security installations will help tackle banditry in the remaining pockets where attacks still occur," Kolum said. He and 10 other elders said the government should invest in good roads and installing electricity to provide jobs and income for youth. “So many youth have abandoned banditry but remain idle. They need to be empowered through self-employment or community development so they do not revert to banditry and cattle rustling," Kolum said. He was with elders Michael Kitur and Paul Krui, among others. Rift Valley regional coordinator George Natembeya said authorities will continue to partner with elders to enforce peace initiatives. “We will not relax or rest until we achieve full peace in areas where pockets of banditry are still reported," Natembeya said. Governor Alex Tolgos of Elgeyo Marakwet said peace and security have been restored in most parts of Kerio Valley and few banditry attacks have been reported in two years. Tolgos says county leaders are discussing how to maintain good security by carrying out development projects. The governor said joint community projects will ensure residents help sustain security in Kerio Valley. Counties affected by banditry include Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot, Turkana, Baringo and Samburu. (Edited by V. Graham)