Meditations By Wanjohi wa Makokha Mattocks make many a cemetery neat Out of their effort, see flower gardens Those, which comfort new gravestones  A poet walks like a shadow of the moon Counting all stars crowning skies of 2020 For each, he assigns a name of numbers  How many graves shall we count tonight? Graves that make mattocks uproot flowers To make space, to host humans and corona.  Not a noise exists louder than life By Wanjohi Wa Makokha Masked... our planet spins with unease The axis is old but new is its reflection Comets, they come to us only to depart Pandemics, too, and their pandemonium Yet, the earth spins ever, almost forever On it's axis as aged as the dawn of time An owl hoots into this celestial twilight Under the allure, of the azure dying sun A news bulletin, races in the cyber space Into the nerves of this quarantined infant The noise of televisions unmasking Covid Is as new as the baby's pulses on the skull And yet two things remain as old as time The earth on its axis, and its eternal dance For, come what new is, still spins the earth In the silence of space, noiseless but alive.  By Thoughts I Read These Clouds By Wanjohi Wa Makokha The clouds above, by thoughts I read The ones clustered above: 19th Covid Which holds our nations in embraces The clouds above a crematorium, see The ones that rise with human smoke As bodies burn bright like white skies The clouds above a cemetery of ashes The ones that create a crown of angst On the heads of this nation in sickness By thoughts I read these clouds of here Like the signs that litter nights of history Where Life survived violent creation day And as Death walks the pages of today Both in old print and digital footprints We read the clouds and survive as Hope.  Wanjohi wa Makokha is the pseudonym under which the Kenyan literary critic and scholar Dr JKS Makokha writes and publishes his poetry. He considers himself simply as a poet from Africa, whose poetic inspiration draws from the continent and the world of the age he exists in. His first book of poems, Nest of Stones (Langaa: 2010) was published under the same name. It has since won several accolades from writers, such as Micere Mugo (who wrote its foreword), Shailja Patel, Susan Kiguli, Ali Jimale Ahmed and Binyavanga Wainaina. On May 6, 2010, Wanjohi presented Nest of Stones to the world via a public reading at the Listros Galerie in Berlin under the auspices of Africavenir. His next book of verse is well under preparation. He has taught literature in Germany, Somalia and Kenya and currently teaches Literature and Theatre at Kenyatta University. Makokha.justus@ku.ac.ke