ODM leader Raila Odinga has called for unity at the Coast saying the main reason for the handshake was to cement the national cohesion and bring development. “Handshake aims at transforming the country into a great place that millions of Kenyans have dreamed of and that is why we shook hands to build the Kenya we wanted”, he said. His sentiments come after some leaders were seen going into political war over the Msambweni campaigns. Speaking on Thursday at Ndeme in Kinondo when he led campaigns for ODM candidate Omar Boga, he said a victory for Boga will give the party members the morale to push the BBI bill. While urging the residents to pass the BBI when it goes to the referendum, Odinga said it will address land injustices unemployment, inequality, and corruption. The former prime minister said it will also help expand the blue economy activities along the south Coast hence creating more employment opportunities to the jobless youth. “There are a lot of resources surrounding these areas and the BBI will assist in exploring and grow the economic status in Msambweni,” he said. Odinga said with more money coming to the county level fishermen will be empowered and buy modern fishing equipment. Odinga was accompanied by Kwale Women rep Zuleikha Hassan, Senators, Isa Boi (Kwale), Mohammed Faki (Mombasa), Madzayo Stewart, (Kilifi), and several MCAs from both counties. They had a closed-door meeting with various Msambweni elders and ODM officials in Diani before heading to Kinondo and Ukunda where he spoke to hundreds of Boga’s supporters. His tour comes as the campaigning period is expected to end by  Saturday. On Wednesday a  majority of the coast leaders from different political parties thronged Msambweni. Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa represented the hustler flag and pitched camp in Mwabungo while Kilifi governor Amason Kingi led the ODM campaigns in Mwaembe. Kalonzo Musyoka led for the Wiper candidate Shee Mahmoud in Ramisi ward. They both campaigned for their candidates ahead of the Tuesday by-election.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris