Impeached Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko and his Kiambu counterpart Ferdinand Waititu could be permanently barred from holding any public office, it has emerged, as the implication of their removal sank in. This could also affect a host of county assembly speakers who have been kicked out in a similar fashion for abuse of office. Lawyers say Chapter Six of the Constitution on Leadership and Integrity makes it clear that state officers removed for abuse of office are barred from holding any other state office. “People take some of these constitutional processes for granted. Impeachment is very punitive. Sonko stands disqualified from any election,” High Court advocate William Okech told the Star. This was also the position taken by senior counsel Otiende Amollo as well as lawyers Bob Mkangi and Suyianka Lempaa. The debarment, the lawyers say, can only change if the impeachment is quashed by the courts. However, the enforcement of these provisions for purposes of elections falls squarely on the IEBC and EACC — two institutions which some advocates lament have failed to faithfully implement the law. Otiende said EACC and IEBC have consistently cleared for elections candidates with serious integrity issues. “Even as Ombudsman, there are 58 people including Sonko and Waitutu that we recommended should not be allowed to run. They were still cleared. EACC and IEBC have been a letdown,” Otiende who served as chairman of the Commission on Administrative Justice told the Star. Article 75 (1)  of the Constitution states that a state officer shall behave in a manner that avoids any conflict between personal interest and public or official duties or in a manner demeaning of the office. It also says state officers must not compromise any public or official interests in favour of personal interests or in a manner demeaning the office he/she holds. “A person who has been dismissed or otherwise removed from office for a contravention of the provisions specified in clause (2) is disqualified from holding any other State office,” Article 75(3) states. The Constitution is even more explicit in Article 180 (2) and 193(2). Article 193 (2g) states that a person is disqualified from being elected a member of a county assembly if the person has been found, in accordance with any law, to have misused or abused a State office or public office or to have contravened Chapter Six. Article 180 (2) makes it mandatory that to be eligible for election as county governor, a person must be eligible for election as a member of the county assembly. This means Sonko, whose three-year tenure at the helm of City Hall was ended by the Senate on Thursday, cannot stand for any other elective seat, even as MCA. There have been speculations that Deputy President William Ruto’s political faction could field Sonko in Nairobi against what is believed would be a “handshake candidate”. Advocate Suyianka Lempaa said Sonko would now be forced to try something else outside politics. “He can go into farming or become a tenderpreneur,” Lempaa said, but regretted that the impeachment law has been applied selectively. “Why are governors like [Okoth] Obado, Moses Lenolkulal and Sospeter Ojaamong, who are facing serious criminal charges, not being impeached?” he asked. On Thursday, the Senate voted  Senators kicked out Sonko based on four broad grounds: gross violation of the constitution, abuse of office, gross misconduct and crimes under national law. Apart from Sonko and Waititu, former Kisumu County Assembly  Speaker Onyango Oloo was also impeached. Oloo has been eyeing the Kisumu Central parliamentary seat. Nyandarua MCA’s will on Thursday debate and take a vote on the impeachment of Speaker Ndegwa Wahome.