Newly-promoted University of Nairobi ‘Terrorists’ face a baptism of fire when they take on reigning men’s champions Ulinzi Warriors during their 2021 Premier League opener on January 16. The soldiers have a strong team and have beefed up their squad in readiness for the long-awaited season. They remain very much the team to beat next year. Women champions Equity Bank, under new coach Sylvia Kamau Ocholla at the helm, will be in action the following day when they face off against United States International University. According to the fixtures released yesterday by Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) fixtures secretary, Joseph Amoko a total of 29 matches will be on the cards in the opening weekend. The matches will be at Nyayo National Stadium, USIU courts, Kisii, Kenyatta Sports Ground Kisumu and Makande Welfare Hall in Mombasa. The 2020 league was halted in March just days before it started due to Covid-19 pandemic. Amoko said the medical protocols will be observed before every match. Other matches on Saturday will see KPA teams host Kenyatta University sides “Oryx’ and ‘Pirates’ while in Kisumu, Lakeside and Lady Bucks will welcome home Emyba and Riara University respectively. Africa bronze medallists, Eagle Wings meet a talent-laden Zetech University as Strathmore University ‘Blades’ come face to face with Equity Bank. Sunday games will see Masaku Sparks confront University of Nairobi Dynamites while Strathmore University ‘Swords’ renew their rivalry with Storms in what should be a fiery contest. Thunder, led by national team star Griffin Ligare will miss defensive ace Shem Otieno, who moved to Equity Bank, when they close the week with a match against Umoja. A total of 21 lower division matches (both the men and women) will also be played with new teams Stanbic Bank, Moi Air Base (MAB) and Kisii Raptors joining the show. Meanwhile, Kisii will for the first time have two teams in the Kenya Basketball League. Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) Kisii branch secretary, Kepher Mogire, said Kisii Raptors will participate in the men’s category for the first time while Kisii University will feature in the league for the third consecutive time. Kisii Raptors, a community club, sailed to the top tier league despite losing 58-55 to Moi Airbase in the play off finals. The teams will play their home matches at Kisii University. Raptors will open their campaign against Nebulas while Kisii University hope to start their season against Western Delight, according to the fixtures. The two games will be played at Kisii University.“As the KBF secretary in Kisii, I’m very proud that we now have two teams in the top tier league,” said Mogire, who is also the head coach of Nyanchwa Boys High School, the multiple Kisii County boys basketball champion. Mogire added: “The implications of having two teams in the league is huge. This will motivate players especially those from high schools. Players from this region will also get exposure and may play for the national team in future.” Some of the basketball power houses in Kisii County include Nyanchwa Boys, Kisii School, Cardinal Otunga High School Mosocho and emerging Nduru Boys. Mogire further added that referees from the region will get an opportunity of officiating in the league.