Kanu boss Gideon Moi will revive party offices in Rift Valley and elsewhere in Western Kenya to popularise the outfit ahead of the 2022 General Election. Gideon plans to run for president and is working closely with Chama Cha Mashinani boss and former Bomet Govenror Isaac Rutto. The CCM boss wants to make a comeback in Rift Valley politics. Rift Valley is considered Deputy President William Ruto's backyard. Kanu branch officials in several counties have been summoned and told to prepare for a series of activities, starting with BBI campaigns ahead of an expected referendum. “Kanu will be more active as we move forward and we have a clear plan of where we want to go, Gideon said when he met Kanu officials in Elgeyo Marakwet on Saturday. On Monday, officials from Kanu branches led by Elgeyo Marakwet chairman Paul Kibet said they plan meetings to ensure the party is well prepared for 2022. “We have structures and networks dating back to Independence and we just need to move and back our party leader's bid in 2022," Kibet said. Kanu secretary general Nick Salat has also been moving around the country, meeting party officials and explaining plans to revitalise party offices and activities. On the BBI referendum Kanu and CCM have planned joint meetings. They plan to field joint candidates in 2022. “We will have candidates in all areas when the time comes and we are preparing for it," CCM general secretary Zedekiah Kiprop Bundotich, also known as Buzeki, said. DP Ruto plans to run for president in 2022 and Gideon and Ruto are expected to give him a run for his money in Rift Valley. Last weekend Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago at a fundraiser at the Catholic Church in Eldoret dismissed Gideon as inconsequential in Rift politics. He told off his allies present, including Governor Alex Tolgos of Elgeyo Marakwet and MPs Silas Tiren and William Chepkut. Chepkut carried donations of Sh1 million from President Kenyatta and another Sh500,000 from Gideon. He called the Kanu boss a humble leader with a bright future. (Edited by V. Graham)