The principal of Othaya Girls Secondary School is this year's winner of the African Union Teacher of the Year Award for her work. Jane Kimiti was announced as the winner on Monday. She was nominated for the prize by the Teachers Service Commission. Her win comes a year following the crowning of Peter Tabichi as world’s best teacher and Erick Ademba who scooped the AU first runners-up continental teachers' prize. The AU Teacher Prize has been established as a means for demonstrating respect for teachers and the teaching profession by encouraging and celebrating committed teachers on the continent. Member states of the African Union were required to nominate two outstanding teachers (male and female) and submit their names to the AU headquarters in Addis Ababa. Kimiti competed against 50 nominated teachers from the five regions in Africa. The nominees were required to submit a record of their personal teaching philosophy and achievement since joining the profession. Kimiti received the prize specifically for having demonstrated qualities in engaging in quality teaching, helping students to achieve long-term career goals by organising engagement with relevant agencies. Her efforts in enhancing the social and cultural value of learning and encouraging desirable behaviour among students through positive feedback were also credited. Kimiti has been in the education sector for 25 years, having worked as a teacher, departmental head, deputy principal and now principal. She holds a masters of education degree in curriculum studies. Last year, she was awarded for her outstanding innovation in the school that has enabled integration of ICT in teaching and learning. The Othaya Girls principal has also introduced an e-learning section in the school. TSC head Nancy Macharia said the win was a confirmation that Kenya was the home of the best teachers. She noted that the prize will be a means for demonstrating respect for teachers and the teaching profession by encouraging and celebrating the committed teachers in Africa. It seeks to raise the status of teaching and inspire the best possible candidates to join the teaching profession. Edited by Henry Makori