ICIPE and Sanergy have jointly been awarded the Food Planet Prize 2020. The two based in Kenya and the US have won the award for tapping an underutilized protein source – insects – based on their ability to convert organic waste to feed and food. While Sanergy is a social enterprise converting the growing organic waste in urban slums into an agricultural resource, ICIPE is a research organisation pioneering the transition to insect-based proteins for food and animal feed. The two were followed by UK’s Blue Ventures, a conservation organization dedicated to preserving marine biodiversity and improving food security in tropical coastal communities . Ventures was followed by Australia's  Future Feed, a joint research initiative striving to reduce methane emissions from livestock with seaweed-based feed additives. The four organisations will each get US $1 million, for efforts to reshape the food system. Insects have been consumed in many parts of the world for millennia. More recently, they have been promoted as an alternative protein source in our food. Yet, their biggest disruptive potential for food system transformation lies in their ability to turn inedible organic waste into animal feed – and further down the line, into food. “Insect tech” can substantially decrease the need for land use in feed production and help establish circular production systems that build on the domestication and farming of suitable insect species. The Prize winners have worked together as research and learning partners, focusing on scientifically sound, systemic solutions based on real-world conditions that are easy to implement in Africa and beyond. Sanergy strives to turn the growing problem of sanitation and organic waste in urban slums into opportunities for farming. ”Our goal over the next five years is to be processing over one million tons of waste per year, which will enable us to produce significant amounts of animal feed and fertilizer, which is so important for food security,” David Auerbach, Co-founder of Sanergy said. He added, “Your support will be the catalyst to enable this expansion. It’s a game-changer for us”. ICIPE, the International Centre for Insect Physiology and Ecology, develops research programs and technology platforms, such as INSEFF –“Insects for Food and Feed”– collaborating with farmers, policymakers, and scientists across the African continent, bringing knowledge to the field that directly improves farmers’ livelihoods. ”This prize is an endorsement that what we are doing is the right way. 4% of the total need of protein for animal consumption in Kenya is now replaced with insects. We are showing the world what is possible,” Dr. Segenet Kelemu, Director-General and CEO at icipe said. The Food Planet Prize recognizes initiatives, organizations and individuals working to secure the world ́s food supply while fostering a healthy and resilient biosphere. It is the largest monetary reward on the global food arena. “Our food system is broken, and the Planet is ailing. We are all part of the problem, and we must all try to be part of the solution. I wish to contribute through the foundation and with these awards.” Curt Bergfors Foundation founder Curt Bergfors said. To be impactful and to contribute to a sustainable and resilient food system, the solutions must be implementable reasonably fast and on a large, preferably global, scale. “We’re starting to feel the impacts of today’s unsustainable food systems, both on global warming and on the basic functions of our planet. A food system shift is vital; it requires political will, ample funding, and the right ideas,”  Johan Rockström, Co-chair, the Food Planet Prize said He said they received over 650 nominations from all over the world, illustrating a diverse global community devoted to solving the food system’s shortcomings and re-imagining food in all its complexity. He said so far, the harmful effects of today’s food systems have not been properly understood. To address the urgency and help reverse this development, the Curt Bergfors Foundation has decided to double its stake in the fight to save the Food Planet. This year we are awarding four US $1 million prizes, instead of the previously announced two,” he said. He added, “The awardees work on several of the areas we have to explore to reshape our food systems so they can operate safely and sustainably. We’re grateful to support them going forward – and eager to welcome an ever-broader spectrum of nominations in 2021”.