Kisumu county health workers have been issued an ultimatum: Return to work by Saturday or face disciplinary action. Doctors, nurses and medical clinicians, however, pledged they would not go back to work until all their grievances and demands have been conclusively addressed. Governor Anyang Nyong'o gave the warning on Monday when he met health workers, both doctors and nurses, at Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital. He pleaded with them to resume duties, saying demands have been met and some back salaries paid to November. He said there were no outstanding issues. Nurses and clinicians went on strike on December 7, doctors joined them on Monday. All strikers demand comprehensive health insurance, free treatment for Covid-19, improved risk allowances, PPE, promotions, designations, payment of arrears and creation of a national health services commission to deal with employment. Nyong’o had visited the facility to gauge the magnitude of the strike and said it was wrong to abandon work just to be in solidary with workers with unresolved issues from other counties. "We call upon health workers to come back to work by latest Saturday," he said. "Anybody who doesn't come back to work will have been deemed to have voluntarily abandoned their position in the county government and we shall act accordingly," the governor said. Nyong’o said health workers had no justification to abandon helpless patients when their complaints had been addressed. He said salary delays had been sorted and all workers, not just health staff, will receive their wages by the fifth of every month. “Some doctors and nurses I met can't explain why they are striking, if not solidarity with others striking for totally different reasons," the governor said. The Kenya National Union of Nurses and the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Union dismissed the governor's threats while saying the strike will continue. Union leaders said they not were part of the meeting held by the governor and did not sanction it. KNUN deputy secretary general Maurice Opetu said the governor's threats were misplaced because their grievances, including promotions and arrears, had not been addressed. KMPDU Nyanza branch chairman Kevin Osuri said the strike was called by doctors across the country and will only be stopped after a resolution by the union's top leadership. "We are telling the governor to leave us alone because he has no moral authority to issue threats in labour matters," he said on Monday. Osuri said no meeting took place to try and resolve the strike, as the governor said. Earlier, Nyong'o said despite the strike, emergency services had not been disrupted at JOOTRH and thanked the few doctors and nurses who remained on duty to treat patients and save lives. He said all 162 health workers contracted under Universal Health  Care have been paid arrears up to November this year, each taking home about Sh300,000. "I am surprised some UHC nurses are also on strike. We have told them to come back to work by Saturday," he said. The governor's press unit said the county has so far received a list of 1,365 medical staff who are eligible for promotion. So far,  1,119 have been promoted, the files of 246 have been rechecked and approved, GPU director Aloice Ager said. All those promoted had their dues date backdated to July 1, 2019. Arrears have been paid in two tranches. "This means that the county is at 100 per cent implementation of the CBA signed with the medical practitioners," Ager said. (Edited by V. Graham)