More than 15,000 cases of violence against women and children have been reported in North Rift region during the Covid-19 pandemic. The actual number including unreported cases is much higher. Cases increased by more than 200 per cent in eight months. The pandemic struck in March. The rise in cases is attributed to frustration at loss of income, at being cooped up at home and other stresses. Most of the cases occurred in homes and included physical violence, rape and defilement among other forms of abuse. They cause injuries, psychological torture and sometimes displacement from homes. Eldoret town records more than 14 cases of violence against women and children every day. “These are just the cases reported to human rights groups or those recorded at police stations. So many other cases in homes go unreported and victims suffer in silence," Nick Omito from the Centre for Human Rights and Mediation said. He cited the 200 per cent increase. "Many women and children are being exposed to de-humanising violence in homes and other areas of society," he said. Omito said police handling of GBV cases has improved. “Most police stations now have special desks or units for handling GBV cases, meaning they are more serious about such matters," he said He expressed regret many cases occurring in homes are unreported and are resolved through kangaroo courts. These allow perpetrators to go free if families are given some compensation, while victims suffer  in silence. “Such cases sorted out domestically are always for the benefit of perpetrators and expose the victims to serious psychological torture. Victims have no where to turn especially if relatives are involved in abuse," Omito said. At the same time, child and teen pregnancies have soared during the pandemic as schools have been closed. Nandi county alone has recorded more than 6,000 child and teen pregnancies, mostly during the pandemic. Deputy Governor Yunita Mitei said this represents an increase of about 3,000 cases over last year. She said the country is facing a crisis of pregnancies among minors that threatens a generation and must be addressed urgently. Mitei said teen pregnancies are more dangerous to schoolgirls than Covid-19. The eight North Rift counties will start support programmes and interventions to help more than 20,000 pregnant girls. Uasin Gishu Health executive Everlyne Rotich says they are discussing awareness programmes for affected girls whose lives may be ruined if they are not supported. Rotich and Mitei said counties and stakeholders must develop ways to help women and girls who are suffering abuse and minors who become pregnant. Minors must go back to school, she said. (Edited by V. Graham)