The National Authority for the Campaign Against Alcohol and Drug Abuse on Monday took its campaigns to Mandera where residents were sensitised. Mandera is among counties where drug and alcohol abuse remains high. The Mandera county department of anti-narcotics led by its director Ahmed Sheikh together with Nacada regional head for Northeastern Wangai Gachoka led the destruction of more than 300 litres of illicit liquor, 400 rolls of bhang and other drugs confiscated by the county anti-narcotics unit in Mandera town. The unit has been cracking down on illegal drugs and illicit liquor since it was established last year. Nacada has identified bhang and Codeine, a substance contained in cough syrup, among the most abused drugs in the region. Youths have also been accused of excessive chewing of miraa. Gachoka promised to empower the anti-narcotics unit with reinforcement from the National Police Service. He spoke after holding a consultative meeting with political leaders, police bosses, religious leaders, youth and women leaders.  “We are ready to work with the local leadership and government agencies to ensure Mandera achieves its desire to be a drug-free community. We are also asking those who have been selling drugs that the time has come to change and look for alternative businesses,” Gachoka said. He said the agency had launched a Nacada Mashinani campaign and that the board would be overseeing its implementation. Mandera Public Service executive Ahmed Sheikh urged locals not to aid criminals and instead join the fight to end the drug menace. “It is our desire that we give hope to our young people. We want to ensure they grow in a community that is able to nature their skills and talents in a drug-free environment,” Sheikh said. He added, “It is encouraging that we have the support of everyone as we walk this journey. No society can progress in a contaminated environment." Mandera county commissioner Onesmus Kyatha assured the leaders and the public that the government will not relent in the fight against drug abuse. "Within the period agreed on, we want to work on a strategy and have bhang and other drugs out of here,” Kibaara said. Clerics and political leaders two weeks ago raised concern about the increase in drug abuse by youth and adults. Mandera East MP Omar Salah urged security officers to conduct a massive crackdown and arrest and prosecute drug peddlers. “The rate at which our youth are consuming drugs is alarming. The situation cannot continue like this. Those behind the illegal business must be brought to book," Salah said. He asked everyone including local administrators, parents, clerics, Nacada and youths themselves to cooperate.  Edited by P.O