The National Cereals and Produce Board has opened five aflatoxin testing laboratories, two in Eastern region. The labs are at the NCPB storage facilities in Meru and Machakos. Others are in Eldoret, Kitale and Nakuru. Nairobi already has a lab. Joseph Kimote, NCPB managing director, said on Friday farmers countrywide previously had to rely on the one lab in Nairobi. Now the country has six labs. Aflatoxin contaminates crops and ingestion can make humans very ill; it can cause death. It comes from a fungus in the soil and is a major cause of ruined crops and financial loss. Kimote said the labs use the Elisa test and can test all mycotoxins in grain and other foods. Services are available to farmers, traders, millers and institutions in the grains and pulses value chain. The public can also test their produce for Sh1,740 per sample, including VAT. "This will ascertain and assure the value chain actors of the quality of the grains they handle," the MD said. He spoke at NCPB headquarters in Nairobi during the launch of testing services. Certificates were awarded to staff trained in testing and who will run the labs "We want to ensure the Kenyan consumer has access to clean and safe food," Kimote said. Present at the event was Peter Mutuku, the managing director of Sorela Suppliers Ltd, the company contracted by NCPB to instal the laboratory testing kits. It also trains quality control officers in the labs. Sorela is a major supplier of aflatoxin testing and other laboratory equipment in East Africa. Aflatoxin contamination can increase during post-harvest processing, transport and storage. Foods such as cereals, oilseeds, pulses, root crops, vegetable products and beverages can be contaminated. Aflatoxin can be prevented by applying Aflasafe after planting. It can be prevented after harvest by ensuring crops are properly dried and stored in a well-ventilated area. Kimote said the NCPB distributes Aflasafe to farmers to control fungal infection in the field. It also provides drying and safe storage. “By having the aflatoxin testing labs, the NCPB helps reduce post-harvest losses. It also promotes trade in safe food under the National Food Safety Policy," Kimote said. (Edited by V. Graham)