The High Court has quashed the appointments of chairpersons and members of boards to various state corporations and parastatals made by President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2016. Justices  Jessie Lessit, Chacha Mwita and L. M. Njuguna said the appointments did not comply with constitutional values and principles in Article 10 and 232 and the Public Service Act. Article 232 provides that fair competition and merit is the basis of appointments and promotions in the public service. "The people of Kenya desired that appointments be made in an open, transparent and inclusive manner taking into account the marginalized and people with disabilities. They deserve no less," said the bench. They subsequently declared the appointments made by the President as unconstitutional. The challenged impugned appointments affect over one hundred persons. The appointments were made through various gazette notices between March and July 2016. The appointments varied from chairpersons to members of boards of various state corporations and parastatals and were made either by the President or respective cabinet secretaries. On June 24, 2016, President Kenyatta effected various changes in the composition of 28 state corporations appointing 23 people to serve as chairpersons of various management boards. He also nominated former CS Kazungu Kambi to the National Government Constituency Development Fund, subject to vetting and approval by the Parliament. In March, Uhuru also appointed Katwa Kigen chairman of the Unclaimed Assets Authority for three years, while Mathew Iteere was appointed chairman of Nyayo Tea Zones Development Authority. But in its case, Katiba Institute through Lawyer Dudley Ochiel argued that the appointments were not made in accordance with the constitution. Ochiel During maintained that there was no openness in the process, no advertisement of the positions or record of the criteria used in the appointments. They said the Attorney General was required to demonstrate that there was indeed an open and transparent process, leading to the impugned appointments. The three-judge bench said they are not persuaded that the AG and Public Service Commission discharged their noble duty and that the impugned appointments did not comply with constitutional values.