Australia batsman Steve Smith has no concerns that a nagging back injury will hamper him during the second test against India, which starts on Saturday at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. Smith had missed some training time in the buildup to the series opener at Adelaide and was still feeling “a little stiff” yesterday, but 31-year-old said he been able to prevent serious flare-ups from the long-standing issue. “It’s just something I need to manage whenever it goes and I probably haven’t had an episode since 2014, I think it was, so hopefully they can continue to be six years apart if they come,” Smith told reporters. “If I’m moving around and laying down I’m good. If I sit around for too long it’s not great for it, but I’m not worried about it. “I think everything will be fine and I’ll be good to go.” Smith scored just one run in the first innings at Adelaide Oval and was one not out when Joe Burns hit the winnings runs as Australia secured an eight-wicket victory over the tourists, who had been dismissed for a record-low 36 in their second innings. But Smith has an impressive record at the MCG. In his seven Boxing Day tests, the right-hander has scored 908 runs at 113.50 with four centuries and three other scores more than 50. At his home ground in Sydney, his next best average at home, he has an average of 67.88. “I like batting at the MCG,” Smith said. “There’s nothing like the thrill and you get the shivers down your spine when you walk out to bat on Boxing Day with the crowd yelling, and it’s like a dream come true in a way.” Elsewhere, New Zealand coach Gary Stead has called on spinner Mitchell Santner to be more attacking with the ball if he is selected to face Pakistan in the test series starting on Saturday in Mt. Maunganui. Santner was included in the squad earlier on Tuesday with selectors not prepared to risk first-choice spinner Ajaz Patel after he recovered from a long-standing calf injury. Santner, 28, is almost an automatic pick in limited overs cricket but has struggled to impose himself at test level as a bowler, where his 39 wickets in 22 matches cost 44.71 runs each. “We know that Mitch in white ball cricket has been a fine bowler for us,” Stead told reporters on a conference call on Tuesday. “I think what we’re looking at is how he keeps being an attacking force in red ball cricket as well. “He’s trying to get a bit more drop on the ball.” While Santner has struggled with the ball in red ball cricket, he averages 25.55 with the bat and has scored a test century and two half-centuries. Stead said he was more likely to fill the all-rounder slot if selected. “If Mitch does play he’d likely play in that number seven (batting) position,” Stead said. “The key thing was the balance of the team we are looking for.” Santner was dropped from the test side after last year’s tour of Australia, while the emergence of the towering Kyle Jamieson has allowed the team to have a four-pronged pace attack with Tim Southee, Trent Boult and Neil Wagner. “We would be unlikely to break up that four-pronged bowling attack,” Stead added as another reason why Santner would be competing with Daryl Mitchell for the all-rounder spot. “If we are going down that lineup it was more about the ability to bat seven for us.” 