John Kibera Otanga started to lose weight gradually in late 2010. In 2011, he went to Mama Lucy Hospital in Kayole, Nairobi, to see a doctor. He was diagnosed with high stomach acidity and ulcers and was given medication. The gracious doctor also gave him his contacts so he could call and inform him of his progress.  But Otanga's condition only got worse. Otanga tried St Mary's hospital in Lang'ata where rigorous blood tests showed he had chronic myeloid leukaemia, a form of blood cancer. Further tests at KNH confirmed the diagnosis. His life changed forever. Otanga, a journalist, worked until recently as a cameraman with NTV. The father of four is over 40 years old. For 10 years now, Otanga has battled the disease and drugs have become a part of his life. When he spoke to the Star on Wednesday, Otanga was frail, struggling with raucous coughs in between speech. "My spleen has really taken a hit and so I'm really struggling to talk and breath, so excuse me," he explained. He went on: "When I started taking the drugs, I greatly improved and even gained weight to 110kg. I also resumed gym workouts and the job." His blood levels balanced as he remained consistent on drugs. Life was good and he would even occasionally forget that he was sick. But since 2018, he said, he took a turn for the worse turn. He rapidly lost weight and suffered sharp debilitating pains. "My family and colleagues got worried for me and the campaign for better intervention started in earnest," he said. With the deteriorating health, Otanga's family has started a crowd-funding drive targeting Sh4 million so he can go to India for tests and chemotherapy. "There are some tests and interventions that are not possible locally. So I have to go to India," he said. Though it has been a disruptive and painful journey as the disease continues to sap the life out of him, the journalist is strong-willed and the hope he has is infectious. "I'm sure I'll beat this. I'll be back well," he said. Edited by Henry Makori