African ministers of Environment are to meet virtually on Friday for a special session to discuss actions for post-Covid-19 recovery. The African Ministerial Conference on the Environment is held as Covid-19 ravages the economies of most states on the continent. The theme of the conference is ‘Enhancing Environmental Action for Effective Post-Covid Recovery in Africa’. Environment CS Keriako Tobiko will represent the country. Unep Africa director and regional representative Juliette Biao said the theme calls for increased environmental action. This, she said, is to protect and restore the environment, to increase resilience to future crises and steer the continent on a more sustainable path. “The recovery efforts will give countries the opportunity to make the much-needed environmental improvements an integral part of the economic recovery,” she said. Biao said the special session will consider key issues on the agenda of the 5th United Nations Environment Assembly to be held from February 22 to 26, 2021, and agree on Africa’s common approach for engagement in the Assembly. “UNEA-5 aims at consolidating environmental actions within the context of sustainable development and give impetus to more effective implementation,” she said. Already, Kenya has started reviewing how she plans to cut her greenhouse gas emissions via seven sectors. The sectors are energy, agriculture, waste management, transport, industrial process, land-use change and forestry. This is in response to decisions adopted at the 19th and 20th sessions of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The parties agreed to increase their ability to adapt to the adverse impacts of climate change and cut greenhouse gas emissions without threatening food production. In 2015, Kenya committed to cutting emissions by 30 per cent. The country then said her greenhouse gas emissions were relatively low, standing at 73MtCO2eq in 2010, out of which 75 per cent are from land use, land-use change and forestry and agriculture sectors. The emissions were due to reliance on wood fuel coupled with the increasing demand for agricultural land and urban development. Other significant emissions are from the energy and transport sectors, with waste and industrial processes contribute negligible amounts. Kenya strives to be a middle-income country by 2030. Development is expected to increase emissions from the energy sector. The African Ministerial Conference on the Environment was established in December 1985, following a meeting held in Cairo, Egypt. The special session will also provide an opportunity for the continent to find common grounds for the 15th session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity (UNCBD-COP15) to be held in 2021. Biao said the Conference of Parties comes at a critical time, taking into consideration the Covid-19 pandemic and the increase in the number of zoonotic diseases due to the unprecedented destruction of habitats by human activity. “The COP will also be finalising the post-2020 biodiversity framework that is expected to play a significant role in building resilience and galvanising international cooperation,” Biao said. She said Covid-19 pandemic has put additional challenges to the social and economic systems in Africa. However, she said, it presents an opportunity to reset the global economy on a pathway towards a more environmentally sustainable and low-carbon developmental trajectory. “It is thus critical at this stage of the pandemic to re-energize implementation of AMCEN and African Union commitments, with a focus on investing in innovative environmental solutions, including financing and policy interventions towards Africa’s recovery from the pandemic,” she said. 