@alalmaurice More than 200 dilapidated houses in Kisumu have been demolished to pave way for the implementation of a Sh3.5 billion affordable housing project. Acting city manager Abala Wanga on Wednesday said the county government had partnered with LAPTRUST to build 1,200 modern housing units. The project is expected to take 48 months. Wanga said the demolition affected 246 units across 39 blocks in Anderson Estate. Most of the tenants are LAPTRUST contributors, being county employees. Governor Anyang Nyong’o was scheduled to launch the construction of the housing units later in the day. Wanga said tenants affected have been compensated so they could look for alternative houses. He said the tenants will be given first priority to own the new houses once construction is complete. "These are old houses and should be condemned. They are not fit for human use. They lack ablution blocks,” Wanga said of the demolished units. He said the housing project was a godsend to city residents. He asked the tenants to quickly move out so works can start. “Those who have been compensated should leave immediately because we are going to flatten the structures,” he said. He urged those who have received their compensation cheques to use the money prudently. City director of housing Arnold Guya said the new units will be comprised of one, two, and three bedrooms. The project, he said, will have a shop complex built around the perimeter wall. “Once the units are complete, low-income earners will be required to deposit Sh100,000 then pay the remaining amounts within a stipulated period,” Guya said. LAPTRUST Project liaison officer George Kopala said a one-bedroom unit will cost Sh1.5 million with two and three-bedroom units costing Sh2.5 million and Sh3.5 million respectively for low-income earners. Under premium, two and three-bedroom units will cost Sh3.5 million and Sh4.5 million respectively for the middle class. Anderson Estate Residents Association chairman Francis Osure said more than 1,000 people are staying in the area. They include tenants and sub-tenants. He said they were widely consulted on the project. “We all agreed that we are going to be given an amicable amount to look for alternative accommodation,” Osure said. He asked the county government to ensure affected residents are given first priority to own the new units once complete.  Edited by P.O