Baringo Senator Gideon Moi says he will go all out to campaign for BBI in Rift Valley, which is DP William Ruto's backyard. Ruto is calling for consensus, not a divisive all-or-nothing referendum. He says divergent views must be considered and incorporated. The BBI campaigns will provide the first real political contest between rivals Gideon and Ruto. Gideon is the chairman of Kanu and a close ally of President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga, all promoting a BBI referendum. Ruto and Gideon have been tussling for control of Rift politics. Ruto wants to be president and Gideon is eyeing the top job as well. Gideon says those not fully behind BBI are misleading the Kalenjin community to reject proposals that eventually would benefit them. Gideon and his allies said in Iten town on Saturday they will ensure Rift Valley backs BBI. “The BBI may not be a perfect document but it’s a strong basis for us to resolve many issues in his country," Gideon said. He has urged Kenyans to ignore BBI's opponents, says their objections are unfounded. In remarks directed towards Ruto, Gideon said those opposing BBI have ulterior motives. Ruto also says proponents have ulterior motives. The Deputy President had rallied his Tangatanga troups at his Karen residence and said he wanted consensus - but stated five "irreducible minimums" for supporting BBI. They including holding the general election and referendum on the same day - a nonstarter. Ruto and his troops said money should be spent to fight Covid-19, not campaign for and fund a referendum when Kenyans are suffering. Gideon said BBI guarantees Kenya's future and shared prosperity, among other benefits. "We are not mutilating the 2010 Constitution. We are only trying to improve it to serve us better. Constitutional amendment is a common practice worldwide," he said. Gideon paid a courtesy call on the governor before engaging Kanu officials at Treasury Square. He was joined by Moiben MP Silas Tiren, Elgeyo Marakwet ODM chairman Micah Kigen, former MPs John Marimoi and Lucas Chepkitony, among others. Governor Tolgos said the BBI signature collection in Rift Valley was "overwhelming", indicating most Kenyans endorse the proposed constitutional amendments. He said disadvantaged counties such as Elgeyo Marakwet would gain immensely from increased allocations proposed by BBI. The governor said BBI critics are "taking Kenyans for a ride". "We are happy that we are already realising the fruits of handshake," Tolgos said, citing tenders for a number of roads. (Edited by V. Graham)