Embattled Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko on Friday promised to fight off his impeachment using all legal means available to him. Sonko was controversially impeached on Thursday with 88 MCAs said to have voted in support of a motion tabled by Michael Ogada. However, 59 MCAs allied to Sonko, and who were with him in Kwale during the Thursday afternoon session claimed the assembly stuff illegally cast votes on their behalf. They lodged two complaints at the Kwale police station, one before the session started and another after it ended under OB 55/3/12/2020. The MCAs, led by Kibra Line Saba’s Millicent Okatch, said the email accounts of 19 of them were hacked into and their credentials used to log them in and vote. County director of communication Jacob Elkana said they were with 59 MCAs in Kwale on Thursday when the impeachment motion was being debated on. “Surprisingly, yesterday, when they started the Zoom meeting, one of the MCAs logged in just to follow up what was happening. “We were very much shocked to see 19 MCAs were logged in while we were seated with them. This was grand theft,” Elkana said. He called on the cybercrime detectives to launch investigations into the matter. Elkana said although one can log in to the system from anywhere, the 59 MCAs could not have logged in because their phones were off since Wednesday morning when they left Nairobi for Kwale and only on Thursday 5.30pm did they switch their phone back on. “There were some people at the ICT centre within the county assembly who logged in using their email addresses and passwords,” Elkana said. He demanded that the assembly clerks provide them with captured images of all those who logged in to their assembly’s system and voted. “Before you log in to the system there is a screen that comes and your image is captured before you log in with your credentials, which include the national ID number, email address and password. “At the end of the Zoom meeting, the same happens. “We want the assembly clerk and IT experts to provide us with the images, captured by the system, of the MCAs said to have voted yet we were with them in Kwale,” Elkana said. The county press boss said the 59 MCAs moved to Kwale for safety reasons. “We were tear-gassed the other day with these MCAs allied to us. We just went to Kwale for our own safety and also to prove that these other MCAs are determined to witch-hunt the governor and they would do something sinister. They vindicated us,” Elkana said. He said each MCAs paid for their own trip and stay in Kwale. Before the meeting in Kwale, Elkana said, they received intelligence reports that there is a plot to hack into MCAs accounts and steal their identities in order to vote against Governor Sonko during the afternoon session. “We went to Kwale police station and recorded statements with the police over the matter,” he said. Elkana said it is inexplicable that out of 122 MCAs in the whole county assembly, less the 59 who were in Kwale, there could still be 88 MCAs who voted. Sonko has already instructed his lawyers, led by Harrison Kinyanjui, to look into all way they can seek redress. “We have written to various government agencies and asked them to probe this matter. We are going to shock them,” Elkana said. “Those people do not have numbers. Where did they get those numbers? Impeaching an elected governor is not a walk in the park?” he said. @Yobramos4