President Uhuru Kenyatta has mourned former Cabinet Minister Joseph 'Joe' William Nthiga Nyagah terming him as a consummate politician whose many years of public service helped shape modern Kenya. In a message of comfort to the Nyagah family, Uhuru eulogised the two-term Gachoka MP as his friend of many years and an influential, approachable servant leader whose wisdom will be missed by many. “Joe was a great person. A friendly leader, highly experienced in public service and a very influential politician. What stood out the most in my many years of interaction with him was his brilliance and clarity of mind when articulating matters of public interest," Uhuru recalled. The head of state said the former Minister was a trusted leader whose outstanding service to the country saw him serve as a minister in two regimes. "It is rare for someone to serve two administrations at the ministerial level but Joe defied all that because of his accomplishments and the trust that he earned from the appointing authority for exemplary performance," he said. Before joining elective politics, Nyagah had a long career in public service having served as Kenya's Ambassador to Brussels and as the Managing Director of national carrier Kenya Airways. “As a nation, we owe Joe a debt of gratitude for his long and distinguished service to the country and for his many accomplishments as a public servant. May God rest his soul in eternal peace," Uhuru mourned. The President wished the Nyagah family, friends and relatives of the departed leader God's comfort and fortitude as they mourn and come to terms with his death. Former President Mwai Kibaki said he saddened by the news of the passing on of Joseph Nyagah, whose larger family he had known closely for many years. "May the Almighty God grant the family and friends of Joe Nyagah the solace only He can afford them at such a moment of painful loss and sorrow," he said. "Prior to joining my Cabinet Joe had long demonstrated his aptitude as a consummate diplomat, a proficient captain of the corporate sector, a suave political mobilizer and community leader. May his outstanding legacy live on. And may his soul rest in eternal peace. The 2017 presidential candidate passed away on Friday at the age of 72 years while undergoing treatment at a Nairobi hospital. His family who confirmed the death said he died from Covid-19.