Patients across the country will continue to feel the brunt of the ongoing strike after talks between the unions and the government failed to bear fruit. The nurses and clinical officers’ strike entered its 11th day on Thursday, with reports that private health facilities are experiencing an influx of patients who can’t access services in public hospitals. The striking nurses and clinical officers continued with their demonstrations in various counties in a bid to have their voices heard and grievances addressed. According to union officials who spoke to the Star, another conciliatory meeting has been scheduled but hopes of finding a lasting solution are slim. “There is no progress; they postponed the meeting to tomorrow. There was a meeting on Tuesday but you know as usual the politics of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission comes in,” KNUN secretary-general Seth Panyako said. “The stumbling block is the Council of Governors and the SRC. The same thing they have been telling us for the past seven years is the same thing they are telling us even today. We will wait and see what they come up with tomorrow.” The CoG on Tuesday distanced itself from the stand-off and asked the unions to approach the respective county governments for county-specific grievances. The organisation said county governments are yet to receive their monthly allocation for October, November and December amounting to more than Sh60 billion. “Some counties have had to take bank overdrafts to ensure that at least salaries are paid on time. But this cannot cover statutory remittances because of their huge monetary implications,” CoG CEO Jacqueline Mogeni said. The CoG has said that enhancement of any of the allowances demanded by the striking healthcare workers from the county government must be approved by the SRC. “The commission has guided that the County Public Service boards negotiate with the respective trade unions with a view to retaining current rates of the risk allowance up to the end of the current review cycle,” Mogeni said. The clinical officers on Tuesday laid to rest their colleague who succumbed to the virus in Nandi. KUCO secretary-general George Gibore has accused some county governments of intimidation during the protests, adding that no level of intimidation will make them abandon their struggle. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the striking healthcare workers are decrying the death of their colleagues in the line of duty, inadequate personal protective equipment and lack of a comprehensive medical cover. They have in some instances been forced to fundraise for their colleagues to clear huge bills after treatment or for the bodies of those who succumbed to the virus to be released. The health system is likely to be crippled further should the government and the doctors fail to reach an amicable solution. With just four days to the lapse of the 14 days, the doctors union had given the government to allow for negotiations, the status of the talks remains unknown.  