@alalmaurice Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo has warned cartels against sabotaging the leasing of five state-owned sugar companies in the Western region. He said some businessmen have been working in cahoots with local politicians to derail the process for their selfish gain. “Some businessmen are hiring politicians to go to court to halt it. They think we don’t know them, and they come from Muhoroni,” he said. “We know them and have seen them carrying fat brown envelopes and bags of sugar. We will soon name the saboteurs. They will soon meet the wrath of the public.” The government seeks to lease Chemelil, Nzoia, Muhoroni, Miwani, and Sony sugar companies for 25 years. Chemelil, Miwani and Muhoroni factories are all in Muhoroni constituency. Koyoo said President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga are committed to reviving the companies and nobody will stop the process of leasing the firms. “The two leaders are still steadfast on the leasing project. We are fully behind them as local leaders,” he said. Koyoo said the leasing programme was the best way to rescue the factories which are struggling and on the brink of collapsing. He spoke on Friday during the disbursement of Sh7.4 million bursary cheques to 973 bright KCSE candidates at Chemelil Roundabout. Koyoo said investors must be prepared to inject sufficient funds into the factories to run them efficiently and profitably. He said leasing the mills to competent investors would restore the needed confidence and trust in the sugar sector. Koyoo urged the government to engage all sector players. He said farmers are the major stakeholders and their input is important in the leasing process. Koyoo said farmers have concerns that the government should consider before leasing. He said sector players support leasing, but they feel sidelined. “Potential investors must have the financial capacity and not use the land as collateral to get loans,” he said. Koyoo also rallied his constituents to embrace and support the Building Bridges Initiative process, saying it was a concept meant to unite Kenyans and bring them on an equal platform. He said the fruits of BBI are already being implemented in the constituency. “I must thank God that Muhoroni is one of the major beneficiaries of BBI maybe if you don’t know,” he said. Koyoo said Muhoroni was the biggest beneficiary of the handshake between Uhuru and Raila. “The first one is the problem facing the sugar industry. The President has ably addressed it by floating the leasing of state-owned sugar companies to make them more productive and vibrant,” he said. The legislator also cited the 63-kilometre sugar belt road traversing Kisumu, Nandi and Kericho counties after the Treasury approved its financing. The Kenya National Highways Authority has already floated the tender. The Sh4.9 billion Kisumu-Chemelil-Muhoroni road is expected to open up the region largely closed out for decades after motorists abandoned the motorway, opting for the smoother Kericho-Kisumu road going through Awasi and Ahero. Two months ago, Kenha director-general Peter Mundinia said the works are expected to start at the intersection with Kisumu-Kakamega (A1) road in Kisumu at Mamboleo and progress through Miwani, Chemelil, Muhoroni eventually terminating at Kapsitet junction, where it joins the Kericho-Kisumu road. 