The greatest threat to Kenya is not the Covid-19 pandemic but endemic corruption in public office. That's what retiring Chief Justice David Maraga said on Thursday in Mombasa in his last address as CJ. The CJ, who is known for integrity and independence, said the looting of public resources by the very people entrusted to safeguard them will ruin the country without great vigilance and resolute action. “I appeal to magistrates and judges to stand firm in the rule of law,” Maraga said. He was addressing a special forum known as Last Conversations organised by the Mombasa law courts to honour him. The CJ, who was accompanied by his wife Eucabeth Nyaboke, at one point wore the robes of a sultan to signify integrity, knowledge and wisdom. Earlier, he presided over special court proceedings to mark the end of tenure. Maraga began his journey in justice at the Mombasa High Court on October 28, 2003. He will officially retire as CJ on January 19 next year. He called on the Judiciary to help the country surmount corruption hurdles by remaining true to the Constitution and the rule of law. “Do your part in the fight against corruption. Don’t be timorous,” he told judges and magistrates. He told the Judiciary to stand up for what is right, saying threats from those opposed to justice should not stop them. “If we do the right things, Kenyans will rise in our defence,” the CJ said. He said the only way to maintain public confidence in the Judiciary is by ensuring the conduct of judicial staff is above reproach. The quest to amass wealth is the root of all problems in the country, the top jurist said, advising judges and magistrates to be satisfied with their salaries and to invest wisely. “No matter how much money you may have, that money will not make you happy. The only way money can make you happy is of you earn it in a just manner,” Maraga said. He said he has faced threats and accusations but his conscious is clear. “The accusations levelled against me are baseless. My joy has been the defence that I have received from Kenyans,” he said. He said the Judiciary plays a great role in ensuring Kenya's prosperity and security. “Please, do not let your country down,” he urged the jurists. He said he may not have been the perfect Chief Justice but he leaves behind a solid Judiciary, which he hopes his successor builds on and takes to a higher level. He said Kenya can be the country all others look to for guidance but first it must deal with and eradicate corruption. Speaker after speaker praised Chief Justice David Maraga. (Edited by V. Graham)