ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna has offered to do 50 hours of community service to show remorse for his recent utterances in Msambweni constituency. Sifuna, who had appeared before the National Cohesion and Integration Commission on Monday over remarks made on December 11, said he made the offer to demonstrate his regret. “As a lawyer, I am offering 50 hours of free legal service in any case touching on gender-based violence, particularly in Msambweni. This will demonstrate genuine remorse so that we can put the chapter behind us,” Sifuna said. Speaking after an hour-long meeting with NCIC commissioners, Sifuna said his remarks were regrettable and asked those who were offended to accept his apology. NCIC had summoned Sifuna and Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa Sifuna to record statements over vulgar remarks during the Msambweni by-election campaigns. The two had been asked to appear in person, failure to which, NCIC would institute contempt proceedings against them. Jumwa will appear before the commission on Tuesday. Commission’s chairperson Samuel Kobia had earlier said the two politicians uttered reckless statements that could breed political intolerance and in turn threaten peaceful coexistence. Kobia said the language by the two leaders during the campaign period was shameful, unethical and wrong. “The fact that any leader, especially those of the stature of MP and secretary-general [of a major political party], can even consider using such language is a low point for them and this nation,” Kobia said. He urged Kenyans to exercise tolerance and allow the law to take its course. He further said the commission is working closely with the Registrar of Political Parties and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to institute legal proceedings against politicians who disregard Chapter Six of the Constitution. On Monday, Sifuna said his choice of words in Msambweni were graphic and socially unacceptable. “People who have had a higher expectation of me were let down. I understand their outrage and apologise for letting them down. I could have passed my message in a better way,” he said. He said Kobia had asked for another meeting with him to discuss the matter. “The commission’s chair will issue a comprehensive statement about the whole issue. I will have another meeting with him. As an elder, he probably wants to give me some words of advice,” he said. Sifuna, however, said NCIC, somehow, seems to apply double standards in executing its mandate. “Some people will say things and nothing is done about it, but when we react in equal measure, we become a target. There are very dirty words that have been targeted at our party leader and nothing seems to be done,” he said. 