Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli has said that he holds the key to leadership in Western. Atwoli asked ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi to ensure he was part of the ongoing alignments ahead of the 2022 race. “I have told Mudavadi to start looking for the state house password, he must get aggressive. Raila Odinga has not abandoned his course but he is looking for the password just like others,” said Atwoli. He said that Luhyas must be part of the next government so as to know how the national cake is shared. Atwoli spoke during the burial service for the late Priscah Ondiso, mother to former nominated MCA Ben Ombima in at Ebwiranyi village in Emuhaya sub-county on Friday. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, area MP Chris Omulele and nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi were present. Atwoli reiterated that he will hold the Bukhungu II to unveil the names of all candidates to vie for various seats in 2022. In December 2016, Atwoli funded a research that named Mudavadi as the most popular Luhya leader and declared him the Luhya spokesman. He was later to disown Mudavadi terming him a coward. In May this year, the Cotu boss named Oparanya and Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa as Luhya point men during a meeting attended by a section of the community's leaders at his Kajiado residence. He later said that Mudavadi remained the Luhya spokesman. Atwoli told mourners that they should not bother to read the BBI bill because it has been read for them by their leaders. Atwoli said that Western, Nyanza and Kisii must unite and work together to create a large team that can negotiate with other blocs for power in 2022. He said that the proposals in the constitutional amendment bill 2020 will clear the way for Western to have its leaders in government. Oparanya said that Western has been in opposition for many years and the proposals in the Bill will guarantee the region a place in government. "We must work together as Luhyas leaders to benefit from the government," he said. Atwoli asked MPs to work towards disbanding the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC) over its opposition to house allowances for MPs by the Parliamentary Service Commission. On Thursday, the High Court directed the PSC to recover Sh2.7 billion MPs earned as house allowances within one year. “MPs must join hands and throw out the Salaries and Remuneration Commission, we don’t want BBI issues to be mixed with SRC,” he said.