In the twenty-first century, we live in the connection economy – everything is interconnected, globally. Here, it is not practical to relate with everyone on the same frequency. Hence, the importance of a tribe – people who share your principles, values, and passions. These are people who give you a sense of belonging. Your tribe gives you the social nourishment that you need to survive and thrive in a complex global ecosystem. Belonging to a tribe has several benefits and, here are three. Shared Journey: One benefit of operating in a tribe is that you never walk alone. It means that you have people around you to share your burden and help you carry the load that your dream presents. You live comforted by the fact that you have people to fight life’s battles with you and, it is empowering. Also, good times are shared. Beyond sharing burdens, it is nourishing to have people who share your triumphs with you. They are there to celebrate milestones in your journey and add to your joy. Your tribe magnifies the significance of every win. They cheer you on as you advance and pursue higher goals. Access More Resources: Recently, I was on the phone with a member of my tribe and, it was awesome. We had such a rich conversation that opened my eyes to things that I had not considered. My tribe mate made her resources available to me as I offered mine to her. By the end of the call, we were both greatly enriched and encouraged. That’s how tribes work. I don’t need to have all the resources for my dreams, but I can find what I lack in my tribe. Someone in my tribe has something that I need, and I have something that they need. Good tribal dynamics ensures that members are catered to. Ideally, a tribe is designed to empower you beyond your limits, so that you access more resources than you can muster. As one person, you can succeed, but in a tribe, your success is exponential. Broader Scope: One of my favorite things about a tribe is access to more ideas and a broader perspective. On your own, your scope is limited, but in a tribe, you have different perspectives that make an intellectual cocktail. In this environment, you see further and move faster. Your ideas grow and evolve in ways you don’t expect. With a good tribe, you experience life’s richness in ways that you could not have alone. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com