The body of former Kaloleni MP Gunga Mwinga has been transferred from the Mombasa Hospital morgue to the Pandya Memorial Hospital morgue where it will stay until around January 8. The body will then be buried on January 9 at his rural home at Chamagande in Kaloleni sub-county, according to the Burial Committee chair Philip Ziro. Kaloleni MP Paul Katana, who was charged with ensuring the safe transfer of the body from Mombasa Hospital mortuary to the Pandya Memorial Hospital mortuary said Kaloleni has lost a father figure and a development-oriented leader. “He will be remembered most for his love for his people and for championing for the unity of the Coast region,” said Katana. The MP asked the public to respect the wishes of the bereaved family and allow them to mourn in peace. “There are all kinds of speculation regarding Mwinga’s death. The family has not released any official statement on the death, so let people not come up with imaginations, rumours and falsehoods,” said Katana at Mombasa Hospital. Katana and the late Mwinga’s uncle and personal assistant, Ngunza Kahindi, had to talk to the hundreds of mourners who had gathered at the Pandya Memorial Hospital to view the late legislators’ body, in order to calm them down after it emerged that they would not be allowed to view it. Ziro explained that he had been informed by the mortuary attendants at Pandya Memorial Hospital said the body had to be treated first before mourners are allowed to view it. Although disappointed, the mourners, who had gathered at the hospital from as early as 1 pm, said they understood. Mwinga’s widow Brenda Nanjala was overwhelmed with emotions as she witnessed her late husband’s body being transferred into the Pandya morgue. She had to be held by relatives. Mwinga had been admitted at the Mombasa Hospital since at least December 20. Umoja Summit Party of Kenya Kilifi county chair Birya Menza, who was a close friend to Mwinga, said the late legislator had informed him of his sickness on December 20. “I called him to inform him I was at a burial in Mwandaza in Kaloleni ward. I had expected to see him there," said Menza. “However, he told me he could not make it to the burial because he had been admitted at Mombasa Hospital and was suffering from severe bacterial infections.” On Monday, December 21, Mwinga informed Menza his condition has gotten worse prompting the USPK chairman to want to visit him in hospital. “However, he told me not to waste my fare because where he is, doctors would not allow me to see him,” said Menza. The Kilifi county USPK said he sent him a text on Christmas eve wishing him a Merry Christmas but Mwinga never responded. He did not pick Menza’s calls too. On Christmas day, Menza again sent him a text message wishing him a Merry Christmas but Mwinga neither responded nor picked the follow-up calls. “Then on Boxing Day, I got the sad news that my friend and advisor is no more,” said Menza. He described Mwinga as a personal advisor and mentor. “He had promised to organize a political meeting for me in January in Kaloleni so I could sell the unity agenda of the USPK to Kaloleni residents,” said Menza. Mwinga had been supportive of the USPK because of their unity agenda. USPK secretary-general Naomi Cidi said they had worked with Mwinga side by side in pushing the Coast agenda although the late legislator had formed his own Devolution Party of Kenya. There were talks ongoing between Mwinga and the USPK leadership to try and work out a possible merger of the parties. “He was planning to join hands with USPK. When we wanted to join all Coast parties he was among the champions of the idea. He was very influential in most of the meetings we had,” said Cidi. Mwinga has left behind a widow and three children.