Magical Kenya, as our beautiful land in the eastern end of Africa is known by the world, offers so many varieties of experiences and tasteful adventures as well as culturally diverse communities, that cannot be explored in a short amount of time. And yes, 'Magical Kenya' is the main mantra by which tourism buffs and all the world explorers of today refer to our magnificent country under the sun. Since gaining our independence in 1963, we have made significant strides into becoming one of the most recognisable attractions in the east and central region of Africa. This has been brought about by the ever increasing influence of the western world with industries such as tourism, trade, investing and infrastructure development as well as media, music and social economic interactions. All these have raised the knowledge base and general know how of the Kenyan people. One of the results of this knowledge growth is the development of fun outdoor activities that some may partake in with their families or even alone. The advantage we have as Africans is that we have all the natural resources without having to secure them from other continents or countries. This gives us the advantage of maintaining a true and accurate depiction of the wild, while still being able to enjoy the amenities that modernization brings. With that modernisation, comes theme parks, cinema halls, malls, racetracks and so much more. With the ongoing pandemic, outdoor activities and usual tourism (including domestic) has taken a serious hit in the financial perspective, seeing as people do not want to risk contracting the virus for the sake of fun. But for those of us who don't live in fear, there are plenty of things one can partake in to oblige your free spirited nature. or just to get out of your comfort zone and fulfill those items on your bucket list. 1. Zip lining This is the most common activity that most people who prefer traveling to a night out on the town can enjoy, without seriously damaging your pocket or your pants, lol. Various places offer the activity, you just need to do the research. But the more common place that a lot of people have gone and left good reviews is 'The Forest' in Kimende just past Limuru on your way to Naivasha. The adrenaline filled activity can leave you screaming your lungs out as you descend from one platform to the other, tethered to a steel cable by a harness that secures you sometimes as high as 100ft in the air. And the best part, this is an activity that can be undertaken by the whole family. Try it. 2. Swimming with the fishes There is a place called Wasini at the coast, a short boat ride away from Diani Beach that has amazing price friendly activities such as scuba diving, and dolphin watching. The adrenaline filled activity can leave you screaming your lungs out as you descend from one platform to the other, tethered to a steel cable by a harness that secures you sometimes as high as 100ft in the air. And the best part, this is an activity that can be undertaken by the whole family. Try it. Take the family there for an unforgettable week(end) during this festive season and be adorned by the love that nature affords freely in the interactions we have with gentle creatures such as the dolphins. If you're lucky enough, you can even get to see the humpback whales, which visit every so often per year and are a rare yet spectacular event to witness. 3. Bungee Jumping For the more hardcore adrenaline junkies, this is the activity for you and your crew of mates. There are six places that offer the brilliant service but the more common site is the one in Sagana. Rapids Camp in Sagana has a 4.5 rating of excellence on google and once you go jump off a bridge as you plummet at terminal velocity towards river Tana, you will understand why. One must however possess the nerves of steel to participate in this wonderful activity. 4. White water rafting Sagana again takes the cake on this one, simply because the river offers so many different spots to which adrenaline fuelled activities flourish. Strap yourself into a dinghy with a few friends and try to navigate the rushing water of River Tana without tipping over or getting stuck in a whirlpool. This fun activity can sometimes be dangerous so be cautious and weary of the company you decide to travel with. 5. Paintballing This is the best activity because not only does it get your heart rate up but it also engages your mind because you have to create strategies that can be employed to defeat the opposing team. (My apologies if I might sound like a gamer on this one). This activity however is best enjoyed with a large group of individuals or families, since they will be pitted against each other, in the battle for supremacy. But once the games begin, it's all up to you to shoot paintballs at your opponents. But not to worry. Every individual is given protective gear. 6. Game drives and nature trails For the more conservative and low risk activities in our great land of Kenya are the National Parks and Conservancies or reserves. There is a wide range of wild natural habitats that can be explored in the whole country and the most famous one is Maasai Mara. There you can see lions, elephants, leopards, cheetahs etc, and if you're lucky enough, you might even get to catch a live action hunt. The best time to view animals is at dawn or dusk due to high temps during the day (depending on the season). 7. Skydiving The most adrenaline filled activity involves cramming yourself into a small Cessna, climbing up to an altitude of about 12000 feet and jumping out. In Diani, Kenya there is an even bigger edge. If you can afford it, there are people who can take it a notch higher with the ability to jump from 22,000 feet, with a soft landing on the beach. Despite what is going on in the world, there's a lot you can do to get your mind off how hectic the year has been. As they always say, You Only Leave Once. Embrace every bit of it. 