The end year corporate activities, social activities and weddings has brought a ray of hope for the hospitality industry in Nairobi. Majority of the hotels are now banking on these activities and events to keep their businesses alive even as the country battles with the second wave Covid-19. In a statement on Monday, PrideInn Azure General Manager Jacton Amutala said the decrease of Covid-19 cases and the gradual opening of the hotels post lockdown had brought hope in the recovery of the industry till recently when the country experienced a resurgence in new cases. He said although there is currently a low occupancy rate of 20 per cent in Nairobi compared to Mombasa's 70 per cent, hoteliers are optimistic that the domestic market and other segments will gradually pave the way for business in 2021. “Many companies are looking for affordable end year parties this year and we are trying our best to give that,” Amutala said. Amutala said the current pandemic has upended traditions and office life. As a result, some companies have chosen to skip the holiday parties although some opted for office end-of-year party which are starting to pickup. “Even though we are receiving fair business from the corporate events segment, about 30% of our traditional clients are not having a holiday celebration this year due to fear of Covid -19,” he said. Sales and Marketing Manager Farzana Zahir said Kenya’s domestic tourism market has remained resilient and that is a key factor in the industry’s recovery. Zahir said the leisure segment in Nairobi is picking up and hoteliers are experiencing good business from the events segment which is seen to recover faster than any other segment. She said business travel and stay is lagging behind but is expected to gradually recover in the second phase. Zahir said the sector hopes for improved business in January 2021 till the end of the year necessitated by reopening of institutions like schools and colleges which are frequent clients, international flights as well as the relaxation of meetings and gathering rules. “With COVID 19 situation, couples are avoiding going abroad for destination weddings and even holding mega wedding as per government directives, hence we are hosting the weddings and honeymoons right here," she said. She said for instance the facility holds an average of seven weddings on smaller scales per week focusing on the safety and hygiene factor as the most important priority.