Doctors on Thursday called off their strike after signing a return to work formula with the government. Reports indicate they have called off the strike after President Uhuru Kenyatta's intervention. Kenya Medical Practitioners Pharmacists and Dentists Union officials have been in a closed door meeting with the ministry since morning. The union SG Chibanzi Mwachonda says the return to work formula was signed after assurance by the ministry that their grievances will be addressed. For instance the government has assured them that quality and standard personal protective gear will be availed to them in their line of duty. Similarly, talks have commenced in counties like Laikipia and Kirinyaga where doctors had been fired to ensure they go back to work by Monday. The doctors say they have decided to call off the strike after majority of their grievances were addressed. In the document signed at Afya House, it was agreed that there would be no victimization of king by the parties involved and salaries withheld by counties arising from the strike be released immediately. “The ministry of labour and social protection is available and ready to conciliate on the pending issues so as to find a lasting solution to the grievances by healthcare workers,” the document reads in part. Those who were present and appended their signatures include the CS Mutahi Kagwe, CoG chairman Wycliffe Oparanya, Labour Committee chair governor James, Ongwae, KMPDU SG Chibanzi Mwachonda, the chairman Samwel Oroko and witnessed by the Labour CS Simon Chelugui. According to the document, the decision was arrived at to allow the National Treasury to fast track release of required budgetary allocations to enable the counties to procure a comprehensive Group Life, last expense, enhanced work injury benefits and group personal accident cover as provided for by the NHIF. “Additionally, counties will make arrangements to procure the comprehensive medical cover as provided for by NHIF on expiry of the running contracts signed between the counties and other insurance providers by February 28, 2921,” it reads. It was also agreed that consultations between the ministry, SRC and the treasury to continue to allow for payment of call allowance owed to doctors. Similarly, it was agreed that the ministry considers renewal of the contracts of the 116 doctors recruited to serve in the Covid-19 isolation and treatment centres across the country subject to availability of funds. “Consideration shall be made for the 206 doctors working at the KNH on contract terms either temporary, one year or three years to be established as permanent and pensionable subject to availability of funds,” the agreement reads. It adds: “The parties herein agree to engage further in good faith and trust to restore industrial harmony in the public health sector.”