The Star newspaper will on Thursday reveal this year's Person of the Year in a special edition. Every year since 2018, The Star has named a Person of the Year. Recipients of the prestigious award are people who have done the most within the year to influence and touch people's lives. This year, the Star asked readers to nominate persons they thought deserved the accolade. Award committee chair and features editor Tom Jalio said they received 2,704 nominations. "They are heroes and heroines in the eyes of the people whose lives they have touched and an inspiration to the rest of us to put service above self," Jalio said. The Star editors fastidiously evaluated the nominations to whittle them down to a shortlist. The list includes healthcare workers, government officials, activists, lawyers, businesspersons and social change agents. “This was no mean task yet it's a great opportunity to celebrate great men and women doing impactful things in our society,” said Susan Kiprono, Radio Africa's head of radio news and committee member. “On Thursday, we get to see a variety of nominees that have contributed to significant change in our lives in one way or the other to move our society forward. Congratulations to them.” Besides naming the Person of the Year, the Star will also highlight all the 13 nominees and why the readers said they deserved being feted. "Our readers are an important part of what we do and the nominations coming from them make it their process. It was also important to get the readers to nominate [persons] as it widens the net," said Oliver Mathenge, Radio Africa's digital editor and committee member. “There are people who are doing a lot in the country but are probably media-shy and therefore not known by many. So it was important that we get the nominees from Kenyans as they know them best.” Last year, the Star feted the following as persons of the year: Okiya Omtatah: From chaining himself to the doors of offices of corrupt public officials over a decade ago, Omtatah has morphed into public litigant number one. Global Teacher Prize winner Peter Tabichi and the brilliant legal mind that is Justice Mumbi Ngugi. CBK Governor Patrick Njoroge was behind a raft of financial reforms in 2019. He tweets and can be outspoken about the government’s ballooning debt. The Star also honoured marathoner Eliud Kichoge, the GOAT (greatest of all time), as a true sports legend. The list also included rapper Khaligraph Jones, ICT innovators - The Restorers - and HIV researcher Benson Edagwa. 