Kanu chairman Gideon Moi has seized the moment and now is crisscrossing the crossing the country campaigning for BBI referendum - with his eyes fixed on 2022. The Barigo senator, son of former President Daniel Moi, is flexing his muscles and reviving Kanu networks. In the last three weeks, the senator has toured several counties including Bomet, Narok, Migori, Baringo and Embu. Next week, the Gideon is expected to tour Nandi county before landing in Elgeyo Markawet. He is emboldened now and his political messaging more polished indicating a man ready to take on his competitors head-on. previously he had been considered a slow-starter and not particularly fired-up. Gideon’s political journey, despite having a famous name and immense resources, until now has been lacklustre, with off and on political activities. That's the opposite of his rival, Deputy President William Ruto. The senator has not formally announced that he will run for President, however, he is in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s succession matrix. If Constitution (Amendment) Bill 2022, a product of BBI, passes, then the positions of prime minister and two deputies will be created. Gideon is tipped to get one of them. Gideon is working closely with President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM boss Raila Odinga in what is believed to birth a new political formation to take on Ruto. The DP enjoys sizeable in the populous Rift Valley and Mt Kenya regions. During his tour of Migori county Gideon he met Kanu delegates from Nyanza. He told them, "After we have passed the BBI report, which we are sure Kenyans will ensure sails through in a referendum, we are prepared to be in the next government." The Star has established that Gideon is keen on positioning Kanu to win more seats across the country in the 2022 General Elections. It is critical to Gideon that Kanu gets a large share of seats in the National Assembly. This will put him at the negotiating table during the sharing out of the PM and two deputy PM positions. BBI proposes the President will pick the Prime minister and two deputies from the party or coalition with the majority of members in the National Assembly. The premier will be the leader of government business in Parliament, overseeing the government's legislative agenda and supervising government operations in ministries and state departments. From January, the Star has learnt, the senator will begin meet-the-people tours of the expansive Rift Valley aimed at wresting the region. Senate Majority leader Samuel Poghisio said the activities are expected to run to 2022. “Kanu is planning a clean sweep in Rift Valley and other regions," Poghisio said. After passing the constitutional amendments, the next stage will be the 2022 General Elections, he said. "As you have witnessed, our chairman and all members of Kanu are out. Kanu will be playing a major role in all the political processes ahead,” the Majority leader said. “Those underestimating Kanu will be shocked. The writing is on the wall and they'd better be ready for competition never seen before. Kanu has networks and we will capitalise on them,” he added. Poghisio said as part of building networks, Gideon will interact with women and youth in a series of activities targeting them. “Gideon is a statesman who attracts respect and admiration from all members of society, be it children, the youth or the elderly. It's because of his non-confrontational style of leadership. "He listens to people." Before his father's burial, Gideon received the ivory-tipped Nyayo rungu that his father always carried, a symbol of authority, power and force. Gideon is likely to be the party's presidential candidate because no one else has expressed interest. Since the exit of Daniel Moi from power in 2002, the fortunes of the Independence party have dwindled. It had been in power for more than 40 years. In subsequent elections, the 'Baba na Mama' party ' was edged out by new entrants who, coincidentally, are led by 'Kanu students'. At one time Kanu had the majority of MPs. Now it has only 10 of 349 MPs and three of 67 senators. Critics of Gideon say, however, he still has a long way to go to match William Ruto. Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi said that despite inheriting a name from his father and despite the wealth at his disposal, Moi Jnr is yet to cut his political teeth. “Gideon Moi and his family are among the top richest families in Kenya, he has the name of his father but still struggles to connect with wananchi," Sudi said. "He is unlike the DP who is charming and generous," he said. Unlike the DP who is charming and generous. A mean person hardly makes a good leader," he told the Star. Belgut MP Nelson Koech said. “Gideon will face an uphill task dethroning the DP in a region that has given him the blessing to lead." He said Rift Valley has endorsed the DP as its leader and all the communities in the region are now behind Ruto. "I would advise Gideon to also back Ruto, just as he had supported his father when he was in leadership." Mathira MP Rigathi Gachugua mentioning Kanu reminds Kenyans of a bad economy and poor leadership. “For sure we cannot go back to Kanu, a regime that tortured people and killed the economy," he told the Star. "We cannot dare make those mistakes again. We are way ahead [and can't] embrace Kanu and its leadership." 