The salaries of Members of Parliament should be slashed by half to reduce the wage bill should the Building Bridges Initiative changes sail through, Thika MP Patrick Wainaina has said. The BBI document proposes 70 extra seats in Parliament and Wainaina said in Thika on Monday that the expanded House would burden taxpayers. There are 349 MPs in the National Assembly and 67 in the Senate whose salaries cost about Sh3.5 billion annually. The additional 70 would raise the bill by about Sh350 million. Wainaina said the proposal to increase the number of MPs is ill-timed and the clause should be removed from the BBI report. “Even the current House is bloated. Adding more legislators will make the assembly lose its meaning. You will even find out that some MPs will end their terms without participating in debates,” Wainaina said. He added, “If Kenyans ratify the BBI as it is okaying an increase of MPs, I will lead by taking a pay cut and I will rally others to do the same.” The MP said as the BBI seeks to ensure more resources trickle down to the counties, its proponents should revisit the clauses that will burden Kenyans. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria said adding more seats in Parliament as the country grapples with Covid-19, huge debts and a rising in inflation is a mockery to Kenyans. He said leaders under the Tanga Tanga faction allied to Deputy President William Ruto are ready to vote No to a bloated Parliament. Kuria said they will oppose it, whether to lose or win but to be on the right side of history. “Personally, I can compromise on anything else but this issue of a bloated Parliament when Kenyans are dying of poverty, Covid-19 and other things. I will vote NO and mobilise other people to vote NO,” Kuria said. Kuria said President Uhuru Kenyatta will be judged harshly by history should he allow the creation of an expanded Legislature. It will dent his legacy as he exits power in 2022, he said. “It is a dot in his legacy and it will be with us forever; history will judge him harshly. It is immoral, unethical and unworkable,” Kuria said. (edited by o. owino)