The Kenya Air Force has taken over the management of civilian government-owned planes in yet another move showing President Uhuru Kenyatta's burgeoning love for the military. Aircraft owned by the Kenya Police, the Kenya Wildlife Service, the Kenya Forest Service, Kenya Power, Kenya Pipeline and Kenya Electricity Transmission Company Limited, among other state agencies, will now be managed by the Kenya Defence Forces. Even though officials said the move is aimed at only managing procurement and maintenance aspects, insiders said a military brigadier is in charge of the new outfit based at the Wilson Airport, Nairobi, under an multi-agency arrangement. Brig Chrispin Odhiambo of the Kenya Air Force and formerly of the National Defence College is the new commandant of the outfit and will be deputised by the National Police Service Air Wing commandant Col Rodgers Mbithi. Plans are underway to promote Brig Odhiambo to a Maj-Gen and Col Mbithi to a Brigadier because of the presumed bigger roles they will play. Sources said all military personnel serving as pilots or technicians in the affected agencies will be promoted to the next rank. And to be able to run the affairs from Wilson Airport where all private and government-owned planes operate from, the military has taken over the Kenya Revenue Authority hangar. "KRA does not have planes but had a hangar at the airport which was occupied by other private planes. The military took over the hangar and it is now being used as the new base for their operations and in running the new outfit,” said an insider aware of the developments. Chief of Defence Forces Gen Robert Kibochi and Inspector General of police Hilary Mutyambai visited the hangar on Monday to inspect the progress so far. This was in anticipation of a visit by President Kenyatta next week to officially unveil the team. Plans are underway to give the team new uniform as their identity. The new operational centre has been renovated, with the military occupying the first floor where Gen Kibochi, Mutyambai and their teams visited and held a two-hour meeting with personnel before leaving. They both did not respond to calls or queries regarding the new developments. The plans by the military to take over the civilian government-owned planes started in September after series of meetings. Defence Cabinet Secretary Monica Juma visited the hangar last month as part of the plans to take over the leadership following a directive by the President. This is the latest move by the President to transfer civilian operations to the military in a trend that has seen the personnel now entrenched in major institutions. Officials aware of the plans revealed the planes, which include helicopters and fixed-wing ones, will be rebranded and be run under the command of the Air Force for accountability purposes. According to insiders, military discipline and the insight of intelligence officers are considered key assets for the respective jobs. The Kenya Defence Forces and the National Intelligence Service training academies emphasise values such as discipline and integrity, and the two institutions appear to have earned trust of the Kenyatta administration. There is also the view that for security-related positions and investigative agencies, these individuals are better suited as they can tap into vital networks for their success. Those aware of the developments said the perception that these men are clean and disciplined has convinced President Kenyatta to put his trust in them as he banks his legacy on the war on corruption. Under their strategic plan, the National Police Service had planned to capacitate their air wing at Sh10.5 billion by acquiring new planes and choppers and recruiting new personnel. All the planes targeted operate from Wilson Airport where the agencies have hangars. The NPS has seven serviceable choppers. One of the choppers is dedicated to the Presidential Escort Unit, which protects the President and his family. Mutyambai had last year said the government was keen to build the capacity of the service in line with their modernisation drive that has seen the service quipped with new choppers. He underscored the importance of aerial surveillance in police operations, adding that they were committed to taking the services to the grassroots. The air wing has 21 pilots and 39 trainee pilots who form part of 150-member staff. KWS air wing was established in 1990 with over 40 pilots to provide air support services to wildlife management across the country. The air wing provides a diverse range of services in support of the wildlife management and protection activities with its fleet of 12 light aircraft and three larger aircraft. In addition, KWS now boasts of four hangars in Meru, Kamboyo in Tsavo West National Park, Mweiga in Aberdares, Nyeri and Wilson Airport. KWS Air Wing has been in operation for more than 30 years. KWS is the only parastatal in the country licensed by Kenya Civil Aviation to maintain aircraft from both public and private sector. Among specialised skills its pilots have are security and patrol flights, veterinary support services for research and translocation purposes, animal tracking, wildlife census, firefighting, rescue work, and transportation of rations and supplies, including ammunition. With 59 parks and reserves spread over a country of 584,896 sq. km, the KWS Air Wing is on permanent standby to fly for action anywhere in Kenya, either for routine monitoring and field trips or security operations and emergency evacuations. It does surveillance, covering a total of 30,000 Nautical miles (NM) per month across all conservation areas in Kenya. Kenya Pipeline, KFS and Ketraco have one chopper each. President Kenyatta has repeatedly denied claims he is militarising the country by deploying soldiers to key government departments. Instead, on several occasions, he has praised the efficiency exhibited by the KDF personnel in their work and asked Kenyans to emulate them. "I have no such intention [militarising the nation]. But it is only a fool who would not use those who can perform to help him achieve his intended goals. I am not militarising anything. I am using reliable Kenyan citizens to fulfill my agenda for this Republic. And the KDF are part of us and are also part of our citizens,” the head of state said in October. Kenyatta cited several infrastructure projects, including rehabilitation of railway lines and the Port of Kisumu, and restoration of ships as some of KDF's recent achievements. He also ordered that the Kenya Meat Commission be transferred and managed by the military in efforts to make it efficient. Further, he deployed military personnel to the Nairobi Metropolitan Service to manage some of the city services. A number of key government agencies are also headed by former military officers. “If all of us in Kenya operated and behaved; and loved and served their country in the manner in which our Kenya Defence Forces does, Kenya would today be a great country. And we all have a big lesson to learn,” President Kenyatta said two months ago. On Monday, he again praised the military for their performance. He later visited the soldiers who are rehabilitating Uhuru Gardens along Langat Road, Nairobi, for the second time in two days. He had visited the same place on Saturday.