Kenya can today parade a dozen bevy of beauties whose exceptional athleticism continue to bring the country honour and pride in the cut-throat world of football. The country has witnessed a steady rise in the growth of women competition since its inception in 1985 when the first league was introduced. The scales attained in the sport so far cannot simply be wished away. To date, women football has claimed authority as the fourth most popular women sport in the country, coming closely behind volleyball, basketball and field hockey. Kenya currently boasts an impressive list of female footballers plying trade in the Europe,  a clear indication of the country’s ability to nurture and produce top class athletes in all sports genres. The East African powerhouse still basks in Harambee Starlets’ unprecedented international glory following the team’s stellar performance in the 2019 Cecafa Women’s Championships, where they clinched the title after dethroning host nation Tanzania 2-0 at Chamazi Stadium, Dar-es-salaam on November 25. The sweet victory couldn’t have come at a better time. It was the most appropriate opportunity for the girls to redeem themselves from their 1-2 loss to Tanzania in the 2016 final at Gulu, Uganda. It also occurred when the Starlets were still smarting from their debacle in the fourth round of the Tokyo 2020 Olympics where they crashed 1-0 away to Zambia’s Shepolopolo on 11th November 2019. This was after the teams played out to a dull 2-2 draw in Nairobi a week before with Kenya’s Corazone Aquino turning the ball into her net, the final score ending 3-2 on aggregate. On the national front, Vihiga Queens continued to dominate the local scene when they were crowned champions of the women’s Premier League for the third consecutive time at the Kitale Stadium in November 2019. Vihiga emerged from the campaign with 70 points and had edged Trans Nzoia Falcons 2-1 in their final encounter. Teresa Engesha who bagged the Golden Boot Award was instrumental in the side’s amazing run, after she netted 36 out of the 78 goals Vihiga scooped in the season. It was indeed an amazing year for women football as the Eldoret Falcons duo of goalkeeper Annette Kundu and defender Ruth Ingotsi each landed a three-year deal with Cyprus outfit Lakatamia FC on January 13. Both later shifted loyalty to AEL in the same league in August. And on January 23, 2020, the 21-year-old Harambee Starlets mercurial midfielder Vivian Adhiambo ‘Corazon’ made a giant leap to Portuguese top tier side Atletico Ouriense to realise her dream of turning professional. A Gaspo Youth player at the time of her departure, Aquino had previously undergone unsuccessful three-month trials with Swedish club FC Rosengard in 2018. Another pleasant surprise awaited the nation a month later as Harambee Starlets striker Essie Akida made the country proud again by signing a two-year professional contract with Turkish giants Besiktas on February 17. This made her the first Kenyan woman in history to join a side that features in the Uefa Women’s Champions League. Akida had previously turned out for Israeli side, Ramat HaSharon FC which signed her in October 2018 following her splendid performance during the Harambee Starlets successful 2016 Africa Women’s Cup of Nations campaign. In August 5, 2020 the country hit another jackpot when Harambee Starlets play-maker Cynthia Shilwatso penned a three-year deal with Spanish top-flight side EDF Logrono. Shilwatso joined the Primiera Division side after a stint with the Kenyan Women Premier League (KWPL) giants Vihiga Queens. Come December 3, 2020 and the faces of local football fans broke into smiles yet again, this time around Harambee Starlets forward Mwanahalima Adam securing a renewable six-month contract with Israeli club Maccabi Holon.  It was a sigh of relief for the diminutive forward whose earlier attempt to land a deal with Swedish club IF Djugarden at the start of the year ended in a huge disappointment when the Swedish Embassy denied her an entry visa. To a casual observer, the Kenyan women football scene may appear perfect from a distant. Real players in the field, however, think differently and believe there are quite a number of rough spots that need to be smoothed. For instance, Mathare United Women secretary Henry Majale contends that the local governing body has displayed little commitment in promoting the women’s league. “We have stagnated. The federation is doing nothing to support women football,” says Majale. “At the last meeting, teams were told that effective season 2020/2021, no coach will be allowed to be on its team bench without a minimum CAF C licence, while in essence FKF have never conducted a coaching course for KWPL coaches.” Majale says that local teams are still grappling with expenses that should ordinarily be catered for by the federation from the registration fees  clubs usually pay at the start of every other season. “Today, we pay for field hire and referees then send the invoices to the federation surely. The only support from the federation is to make fixtures.” Majale further probes into the federation’s reluctance to disburse the Covid-19 funds they received from Fifa and Caf to cushion local players against the pandemic. “They claim to have not received Covid-19 funds from Fifa and Caf, we all know all federations world over received the funds including the Somalia and Syria FA. The funds were sent to all federations. Sh50m from Fifa and Sh20m from CAF,” says Majale. “Man, this is true, Ghana bought buses for women teams to help in transport, Sudan gave teams cash, Tanzania and Uganda gave teams cash. In Kenya, we were told that the money would be channeled towards conducting corona tests and then later each team will receive Sh400 but we take over field and referees payment,” says Majale. “Seems moving forward, only rich clubs will participate in the league.” Eldoret Falcons head coach Joshua Ariko echoes Majale’s sentiments while sharing his concerns about the real situation on the ground. Ariko asserts that most players in the women leagues are literally struggling to make ends meet. “Main challenge is transport especially at this time of corona and Christmas at the same time. There is lack of sponsorship but the girls just play believing that one day doors shall open but they are not sure when,” says Ariko. “Accommodation for players is also a problem because they are not paid to rent their own houses, and then food is another issue,” says Ariko. Vihiga Queens’ Vincent Alumira, however, thinks there is a glimmer of hope in the face of the challenges. “For now there’s a positive approach and we just hope that things will get better if FKF lives to their word.” “Clubs were promised some funds from the COVID-19 as well as a promise from a percentage of the Betking/StarTimes deal.” Alumira points out some issues of key concern which he feels need to be urgently redressed. “Other than that, all is not well, but if with time more resources can be pumped in then it will be better. Teams require at least Sh3 million per season (minus salaries). That means club owners will have to really sacrifice. Winners and runners-up get Sh1 million and Sh500,000 respectively.” The youthful tactician also believes the country has derived some positives from the devastating effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The lessons learnt from the Covid pandemic include our players and staff thinking of alternative means of livelihood outside football.” Alumira is urging FKF to create a level playing field for both men and women because things have been tilting in favour of men over the years. “I think they at times feel discouraged a lot easily when things don’t seem to pay off. They at times feel like there’s unfair treatment between them and their male counterparts and at times it is hard to explain to them why the discrepancy but we try our best to motivate them hoping for a better tomorrow.” The recently elected FKF Nairobi East Women Representative Ann Aluoch says she’s satisfied with the progress she has seen so far. “There are a lot of strides women football has made because we have many professional football players now, formation of women league’s from regional to the top tier, international and local tournaments for our national teams, formation of U-17 despite the fact that we still have a challenge in  sponsorship, medical cover and allowances.” All has not been rosy for the local women’s top flight football. The league emerged from the ashes of 2010 when competition ended abruptly because of financial hardships, only to resuscitate later after UNICEF and the Kenyan government chipped in as sponsors. In 2013 the support was withdrawn, leaving the league unfinished mid-season. In 2014, the league was named FKF Women’s’ Premier League. The emergence of women football in the country gave rise to the Kenya Women’s Football Federation in 1993, who assembled a national team that flew the country’s flag in a host of international assignments between then and 1996. Unfortunately, the association was disbanded barely three years into its existence owing to pressure from Fifa who placed it under the country’s main governing body - Football Kenya Federation—as a sub committee.  FACT FILE January 13, 2020: Ruth Ingotsi and Anette Kundu join Lakatamia of Cyprus January 23, 2020: 21-year-old Harambee Starlets mercurial midfielder Vivian Adhiambo ‘Corazon’ joins Atletico Ouriense of Portugal. February 17, 2020: Essie Akida joins Besiktas of Turkey. August 5, 2020: Cynthia Shilwatso pens a three-year deal with Spanish top-flight side EDF Logrono. December 3, 2020: Harambee Starlets forward Mwanahalima Adam secures a renewable six-month contract with Israeli club Maccabi Holon.    