Kariobangi Sharks captain Erick Juma believes the renewal of the shirt sponsorship deal between the club and Betway will inspire the players to muscle for the Kenya Premier League title this season. Sharks, who are yet to concede a goal this season, will enjoy a financial boost from the bookmarkers for the next one year after renewing the deal initially signed in November last year. The versatile player, who has been in Sharks' books for more than a decade, said the extension of the partnership was an assurance that the player welfare, a key ingredient for title-winning performance, was in safe hands. Juma is looking forward to earning playtime for the first time this season against Bidco United on Saturday after missing the last two rounds after a bout of malaria. "This is a massive boost for the team in our quest to win the league this season. With Betway as our shirt sponsor, I am confident that player welfare will be taken care of and we will, in turn, focus on delivering on the pitch," he said Juma's sentiments were echoed by the club chairman, Robert Maoga, who reiterated their ambition to return to continental football after two years in the cold. The administrator was over the moon after the Shield Cup sponsors extended the deal which he noted will help his office shoulder the cost of running the club. "The coronavirus pandemic has caused unprecedented challenges to players and the renewal of the pact was timely. It will ease costs of honouring matches, paying players and will help us in our direct focus of winning the league and playing Caf matches," he said Betway Kenya chairman Kiprono Kittony challenged the club to seize the financial moment and scale to the top of Kenyan football. "I hope this will be the beginning of Sharks' rise to the top of Kenyan football. We are proud to renew the sponsorship and we assure the sports fraternity of our support through our Corporate Social Responsibility activities," he said. At the same time, he appealed to the government to review down the punitive taxes imposed on gaming firms to save them from closing shops. "We stand for ethical gaming which we consider as an avenue for raising revenue. We call upon the government to streamline the tax regime to ensure companies that stand for ethical gaming and compliance of the law operate in a conducive business environment," he added.