The planned impeachment against Nyandarua county speaker Wahome Ndegwa is being seen as a threat to the passage of the BBI Bill. The speaker who also doubles up as the County Assemblies forum chairman is seen to have an influence on most of MCAs across the country. The BBI Bill must pass in at least 24 county assemblies for it to get to the referendum. During the launch of the report at Bomas, Ndegwa raised pertinent issues that affect the county assemblies among them the appointment of MCAs to the county executive committees. Ndegwa's move was hailed by MCAs and the proposal was among those that were included in the final Bill. The ongoing Nyandarua impeachment process could easily spiral down to the assemblies which Ndegwa leads. According to Ndegwa, the BBI Bill has many benefits for county government and devolution in general. He has also been mobilising MCAs even from areas that are opposed to the Bill to support it once it gets to the floor of their asemblies. Some MCAs are not questioning the timing of the impeachment of their chairman and how this would affect the ongoing process. Ndegwa is of the opinion that his many proposals on the BBI document, could be what his political rivals including Governor Francis Kimemia and nominated MP Maina Kamanda are using to claim he is opposed to the process. In a statement issued on Wednesday, Kimemia called on the legislators to expedite the move, which he indicated is in the public interest. “I urge all the MCAs and staff of the county assembly to be guided by the law and hasten their intended business of the motion so that normalcy resumes in the house in the public interest. I assure that no officers will be unduly victimised during this process,” he said. Ndegwa, however, protests his innocence, saying the legislators are only chasing shadows and shooting in the dark. "The Governor is framing up fake charges against me,with the aim of removing me and has his speaker whom he can control and be his puppet," Wahome said. The speaker has said all this witch hunt emanating from his strict supervision of the county executive of Nyandarua. A special sitting of the county assembly is scheduled for December 24 to discuss the impeachment. The deputy speaker has invited the speaker to respond to the grounds cited in the motion on the said date among them conflict of interest, nepotism, abuse of office, failure to fill the vacancy of chief executive officer of the county assembly service board, and gloss violation of the public finance management act 2012.