The Kenya Medical Supplies Authority has dismissed claims that two ventilators donated to the Migori county government by the World Bank have mysteriously disappeared. There were claims the county was unable to trace the ventilators donated four months ago. The equipment were to be delivered to Migori Level 4 Hospital to help Covid-19 patients who needed emergency treatment. However, county Health executive Iscar Oluoch said they had been unable to trace the ventilators. In a statement Wednesday, Kemsa said the two ventilators were collected from its Embakasi Supply Chain Centre on December 22  by the Migori county chief officer for health Dr Dalmas Oyugi. “Kemsa received the distribution list of the ventilators from Afya House on November 19 and released the two ventilators to Migori county as per the distribution list,” the agency said. “Early this year, Migori County also received two Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) machines as part of government donations. We wish to assure the residents of Migori of our commitment to supply health products and technologies that are of high quality, safe and cost-effective.” There were claims the county had been given four ventilators but the authority mentioned only two. A shortage of breathing machines could mean the difference between life and death for Covid-19 patients in the most critical condition. That means the ventilators are crucial to saving lives. For patients with the worst effects of Covid-19, a ventilator increases chances of survival. “Kemsa upholds its’ mission of providing reliable, affordable and quality health products, technologies and supply chain solutions for improved health care,” the statement said. The machine takes over the body’s breathing process when the disease leads to lung failure in a patient. It helps patients who cannot breathe properly on their own by pumping air into their lungs through a tube that is inserted into their windpipes. Those who are put on ventilators are typically the sickest patients in the hospital, and any decision to have them put on ventilators is often made as a last resort to save their lives.