The Vihiga administration has hired 814 early childhood education teachers ahead of the resumption of learning in schools on January 4 next year. Governor Wilber Ottichilo said some of the teachers will be posted to the 175 new ECD centres and the others will plug shortages. “Early childhood development and education provides a strong foundation for these young children to prosper in their future studies,” Ottichilo said. “When the foundation is weak then learners tend to have numerous challenges as they progress in their studies.” Ottichilo spoke on Friday at Kidundu Stadium during a ceremony to hand over appointment letters to the recruited tutors. The governor assured the teachers that necessary legislation has been put in place to ensure smooth operations in the ECDE sector. He committed to ensuring the feeding programme in ECDE centres continues when learning resumes. The governor said his administration will provide face masks and sanitiser for the learners to help control Covid-19 infections. "When I assumed office, the recruitment of ECDE teachers was among my priorities. I am happy the recruitment took place and we have 814 teachers in the county," Ottichilo said. ECDE chief officer Mary Anyienda challenged the teachers to work hard to lay a strong foundation for the education of the children. County assembly education committee chair Violet Bagada said the feeding programme in the ECDE centres will resume as soon as possible. She said the county has adhered to Covid-19 safety protocols put in place by the Ministry of Health to protect the children from Covid-19 infection. Teacher Noel Libese promised that she and her colleagues will give their best for the learners to have a great foundation. Since Ottichilo took over, he has built 175 new classrooms and equipped all the 407 ECDE centres with learning materials. Other leaders present at the event were MCAs Moses Opole of Emabungo, Wycliffe Masini (Mungoma), Edwin Kutahi (Northeast Bunyore), Collins Ayubu (Banja) and nominated ward representatives Venna Kaisha and Elizabeth Muhonja.  (edited by o. owino)