President Uhuru Kenyatta seems unmoved by the spiralling diplomatic spat between Kenya and Somalia. State House issued a joint communique by Uhuru and Somaliland President Muse Bihi where they directed their respective senior officials to work together to develop a general cooperation framework agreement. In the agreement, Kenya is expected to open its Consulate in Hargeisa by end of March 2021. Somaliland would also upgrade its Liaison Office in Nairobi within the same timeframe On Monday night, Somalia announced that it was cutting ties with Kenya citing constant violation of Somalia’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. Somalia Minister of Information Osman Dubbe announced that Mogadishu will in the next seven days withdraw all its diplomats from Kenya. At the end of Abdi's visit on Tuesday, it was expected that the two presidents would talk about the spat but they did not do so in their communique. The statement stated that Kenya Airways and other Kenyan airlines would commence direct flights between Nairobi and Hargeisa by end of March 2021. Senior officials on a pre-determined list and travelling to Kenya on Somaliland travel documents will be allowed to apply for e-visa and receive visa on arrival by end of March 2021. Senior Officials from Kenya and Somaliland are also expected to agree on details and timelines for enhancing technical cooperation, including implementation of Exchange Programmes involving Students, Agricultural Officers, Doctors, Nurses and other professionals. "The Presidents reaffirmed their unwavering commitment to deepen the cordial bilateral relations between Kenya and Somaliland," the joint communique said. The two noted with deep satisfaction that the cooperation between Kenya and Somaliland lay on a foundation of shared values and principles aimed at fostering sustainable peace, stability, sustained growth, and shared prosperity. "Kenya and Somaliland would continue to work together to promote peace and stability, and in pursuit of shared prosperity," the communique read. During their discussions, the leaders focused their attention on the expansion of bilateral trade. At the conclusion of the official Visit,  President Abdi, expressed gratitude to Uhuru for the progress made in deepening bilateral relations during the visit, as well as the warm welcome and generous hospitality accorded to him and his delegation.