The Media Council of Kenya has supported the decision by Kenyan media houses to stop coverage of FKF functions. This was after MCK received information from Sports Journalist Association of Kenya stating that some of its members, who are accredited by the council were allegedly without justifiable cause denied access by FKF to cover the Kenya PremierLeague matches. Reports indicated that Football Kenya Federation stationed policemen at entrances with specific instructions to bar certain journalists from accessing the venues of the matches. Consequently, the management of those affected including the Nation Media Group and Standard Group have suspended coverage of FKF leagues and activities in protest. In a statement on Monday, MCK said FKF should remain in a total blackout until it restores the dignity and rights of the media. "The Kenya police service should stop enforcing illegal orders issued by people bent on"threatening Freedom of the Media," Chief Executive Officer David Omwoyo said. Omwoyo said it is illegal and unconstitutional for FKF or any other body or institution to bar journalists from accessing its public functions. "We fully support the decision by Kenyan media houses to stop coverage of FKF functions and encourage a total blackout until FKF restores the dignity and rights of the media," he added. Omwoyo said if there any complaints against journalists or media houses, the organization ought to have reported the matter to the Media Complaints Commission. The Media Council of Kenya has asked Football Kenya Federation (FKF) president Nick Mwendwa to furnish it with information as to why journalists were barred. The letter was copied to Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed. "The alleged act of denying journalists access to a public event is a violation of their fundamental freedom and rights established under the Constitution. We, therefore, request that you provide the Council with information on what transpired to shed more light and enable us to resolve the matter," read part of the letter. International Sports Press Association on Saturday criticised FKF's move to block journalists from covering the match. Several journalists including those from Daily Nation and Standard Media Group were denied access to the Nyayo Stadium.