Patients in the country will have to continue bearing the brunt of the strike as blame games between parties continues. Wednesday marked the 17th day since nurses downed their tools over lack of quality PPEs, comprehensive medical cover, and designation of healthcare workers who contract Covid-19 in all counties in the country among other grievances. The doctors joined the strike on Monday. The governors and the Health CS Mutahi Kagwe have threatened to fire the striking healthcare workers on grounds that the strike was declared illegal by the Labour court. “Since they have decided to go on strike we as counties we must also take stern action against them. We will remove them from payroll and carry out recruitment of other healthcare workers,” CoG chairman Wycliffe Oparanya said. But speaking in Nairobi on Wednesday, the Kenya National Union of Nurses SG Seth Panyako termed decisions by the CoG as reactiona ry, adding that it is meant to intimidate, threaten, scare and attempt to rewrite the Constitution of Kenya. “The union wishes to state that the attached court orders in the letter do not have any nexus nor impact on the ongoing nationwide nurses’ strike,” Panyako said. The nurses have however withdrawn the demand for the inclusion of a Health Service Commission, saying the matter is pending determination before the constitutional court. “Owing to the fact that the matter is currently active, and a five bench judges has been constituted to hear our petition, we have no choice but to withdraw among the items of our demand and believe that the judiciary will do justice for nurses and all health workers of this country,” Panyako said. They want the government to avail all the agreements entered in the two levels of government and the insurance companies to provide group life insurance and comprehensive medical cover. In his address on Tuesday, Kagwe said both levels of government will ensure that Kenyans are not abandoned to suffer by recruiting and replacing the striking staff with other healthcare workers who are seeking employment in order to ensure continued service delivery in all public health facilities. “In accordance with Section 79 of Labour Relations Act 2007, employees who engage in unprotected strike such as the one healthcare workers ar in, are liable to disciplinary action by the employer,” Kagwe said. “Besides, continuing with the strike is as sign of bad faith on the part of the healthcare workers. At a time like this of the festive season, the least you can do is give Kenyans the gift of care.” The nurses are now blaming the government of abandoning conciliatory talks adding the negotiation stalled after threats were issued by the CS. “We were almost through with the negotiations. We are urging that leaders who are in power provide leadership. It is government which is now leading the strike,” KNUN chairman Joseph Kwasi said. The union deputy SG Maurice Opetu emphasized the strike by the nurses and clinical officers is still on, adding that no court order in place that has stalled the strike. “It is interesting that the last two weeks we have been on strike we have not lost any health worker, that is evidence that we have been working in dangerous environment. We ask our members to continue being out until we are assured our working environment is safe,” Opetu said. Opetu added: “We have done well with the ministry of Labour which was heading negotiation until the CS made the threats, and then government has abandoned the talks. Until the environment gets better and safe, until they pay our risk allowance which is not a token.”