A three-judge bench comprising of Justices Teresia Matheka, Antony Ndung’u, and Jairus Ngaah has ruled that The National Budget cannot be read or unveiled before parliament approves how the National government will share its resources with counties. The court held that any future tabling of budget policy highlights without the inclusion of the division revenue bill will be unconstitutional. “A declaration is hereby issued that any subsequence tabling of the budget policy highlights and the legislative proposal by the CS Finance without the passing or including of the division revenue bill is illegal,” the court ruled. They ruled that the national government cannot go ahead to allocate money to the National government CDF before giving devolved units their share. “In the absence of the division of revenue bill no monies can be allocated to the constituencies under the National Government Constituency Development Fund by virtue of section 4 of the NGCDF 2015 and any monies spent have been allocated in an illegal manner,” the court held. In the case, Kenya Human Rights Commission, Transparency International Kenya, Africa Centre for Open Governance, and the Institution for social accountability moved to court in 2019 challenging the decision to table the budget policy highlight and the legislative proposal for the financial year 2019/2020 without the inclusion of the division of revenue bill 2019. The court noted that  Chapter 12 of the constitution is a departure of this old way of doing things and is intended to protect the national resources from plunder and to ensure that national revenue is shared equitably. It was their view that the law was majorly informed by the frustrations Kenyans were subjected to by the centralized system of governance which largely contributed to deprivation of their fair share of the national cake. “They successfully agitated to the devolution system of governance through which they will be guaranteed access to what they are rightly entitled to as owners of this country,” they said. It was their argument that the Finance Bill is passed 90 days after the passing of the Appropriation Bill as the presentation of the budget policy highlights the passing of the two pieces of legislation in accordance with section 41 of the Public Finance Management Act. However, the Attorney General had asked the court to dismiss the petition arguing that the issues raised were the same and had been settled by the Supreme Court in the Advisory Opinion to the Council of Governors on the same issues. The state further argues that courts and judges are not advice-givers and it ought not to determine issues that are not yet ready for determination or are only of academic interest having been overtaken by events. They said that the budget policy highlights and the legislative proposal for the Financial Year 2019/2020 have already been tabled and the case had been overtaken by events. The court was told that the Division of Revenue Act, 2019 has already been enacted and the Financial Year 2019/2020 had ended.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris