The need to have as many members as possible participate in the proceedings of the house while safeguarding them from contracting coronavirus has pushed the Senate to adopt a hybrid system of plenary sittings. The system, which blends virtual and physical attendance of plenary meetings, will ease congestion in the chamber where members have been scrambling for space. Speaker Kenneth Lusaka announced the adoption of the system during the special sitting convened to deliberate on the method of hearing Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko’s impeachment on Wednesday. He invoked Standing order 51 (2)(a) that allows the senators to hold both virtual and physical plenary sittings. Lusaka said the system will help reduce congestion as a precaution to protect members from contracting Covid 19. “The prevailing COVID-19 pandemic continues to increase and has affected each one of us in one way or the other,” he said. Lusaka said he had determined that it is  imperative that they hold a hybrid virtual sitting to accommodate their colleagues who are not in a position to attend and participate physically The order, however, sparked fierce reactions from a section of the members who questioned the transparency of the system and called for its shelving. The lawmakers claimed that the blended system would compromise the integrity of the parliamentary proceedings and called on him to shelve it. “I see a lot of room for mischief. Let’s suspend the operationalisation of this system and do a mock exercise first,” said Narok senator. Senators Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet), Mithika Linturi (Meru), Aaron Cheruiyot (Kericho) and Moses Kajwang (Hama Bay) asked the speaker to suspend his directive. However, the speaker rejected the members’ plea to rescind his decision to use the hybrid sitting, at least, during the trial of Sonko’s impeachment. “We are the ones who passed these standing orders, we must start somewhere. Of course, it may not be perfect, we may make changes but let’s have confidence in ourselves,” said the speaker. He went ahead to issue guidelines for senators intending to attend plenary sittings virtually. The speaker said members intending to participate in the Sitting virtually through zoom video communications are required to contact the Clerk’s at least 30 minutes before the Sitting commences. “Senators participating virtually must log-in using their full names and their video must be on,” he said. In addition, they shall participate from an environment which is non-political, professionally appropriate and not distracting to other Senators. Senators attending the sessions virtually shall enjoy and exercise the powers, privileges and immunities bestowed on Parliament by the Constitution, the Parliamentary Powers and Privileges Act, 2017 and any other written law irrespective of where they are following the proceedings from. “Pursuant to Standing Order 251D (2), a Senator participating virtually shall adhere to the standards set out under the Speaker’s Rules on attire and decorum,” he directed. Their microphone will be on mute and un-mute only when called upon by the Presiding Officer to speak. “A Senator shall be visible to the Presiding Officer in order to be counted for the purpose of establishing a quorum, taking a decision or voting on a matter,” he said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris