On his day, burly Voi-born striker Wycliffe Ochomo was virtually unplayable. His combative style of verbally and physically haranguing defenders did not endear him to opposing players and fans alike. However, in a candid interview, the former Bandari, Ulinzi Stars, Muhoroni and Gor Mahia forward insists that he was simply doing his job as a marksman.  "I am not easily intimidated. If you elbow me, I will not run to the referee or cry all day. I will exert my revenge on the pitch," he asserts. He likens his playing style to that of Atletico Madrid's Spanish striker, Diego Costa who goes all out to wind up opponents before applying the killer blow. "If you lose your head due to my antics, you are done. I will punish you. I remember when I was at Muhoroni playing against Ulinzi, I made Kokoyo (Geoffrey) go nuts. I then had it easy scoring twice as we won," he recalls with a cheeky laugh. It was not always smooth-sailing for the man who broke into the football scene courtesy of a wonder strike against Gor Mahia while playing for Congo United. In particular, Ochomo touts former Harambee Stars defender Joakins Atudo as his toughest opponent ever saying the hard-as-nuts two-time title-winning defender was unflappable. "Atudo was not easily intimidated regardless of the insults I hurled in his direction on the pitch. He would bid his time and then unleash one of his scathing tackles. He was the one who gave me nightmares," he admits. In  2016, Ochomo was caught on camera touching Atudo's behind during a match and even though he explained himself out of the situation, he still feels he went too far. "I was a little reckless in my career due to, maybe, my coastal upbringing where we banter frequently. I think I went over the top but I got advise from the likes of Twahir Muhiddin and now am more mature as a player and as a person as I have to be a role model," says Ochomo. "That day it was at the heat of the moment thing against Atudo because he had frustrated me the entire game despite me trying all the tricks in the book and thus instictively jabbed him but I apologised and we are still friends.I respect him." Chequered career Currently out of action with a thigh injury, Ochomo looks back at his over a decade-long career with mixed feelings. His stunning goal for unfancied Mombasa-based side Congo United against K'Ogalo would later earn him a move to the 19-time champions. "I played for Congo United in the National Super League while I was still in secondary school. I helped the club qualify for the KPL in 2010. I played there for just three months because I had signed for Gor in April and moved after the transfer window was opened under the then-coach Zedekiah 'Zico' Otieno," he says. At the 'Green Army,' he formed a deadly combination with Edwin Lavatsa, Hajj Mwachoki and Kevin 'Ade' Omondi. He recalls with pride his first-ever Mashemeji derby during which he scored the first of three goals against arch-rivals AFC Leopards. "Scoring in the derby against Leopards was one of my most memorable moments. I was injured in that match but if I had stayed long enough, I would have been a man of the match," he pronounces in his characteristic cocky style. For all his achievements with his different clubs — the second top scorers gong in the KPL with Muhoroni, his stunning strike for debutants Congo against Gor, Gotv Shield triumph with Bandari and his Mashemeji derby strike — it is his experience at military side Ulinzi that seems to have left a lasting impression on Ochomo. "Ulinzi did very good things for me. I remember they settled my mother's bill when she was hospitalised at Kenyatta National Hospital. When she passed on, they stood by me and even my teammate Waruru (Stephen) gave me his vehicle to proceed to my mum's funerąl," Ochomo says in a soft voice that reveals a more emotional side of the burly striker. He is also indebted to the club for the support they gave him during his wedding preparations and eventual implementation in 2011 — the same year that his mother passed away. "In particular, I have nothing but appreciation for James Mwinyiķai (then Ulinzi chairman). He was the best I have ever had as a club chairman alongside Gor Mahia's Rachier (Ambrose) and Daniel Manduku of Bandari. God bless them," Ochomo says. Off the pitch, the Ulinzi quintet of James Mulinge, Chester Okoyo, Lawrence Owino the late Erick Ouma and Waruru left a lasting impression on Ochomo. "They accepted me as one of their own even though I was a civilian. They would urge me to invest the money I got and not squander it on partying. Mulinge urged me to buy a piece of land and on which  I built rental houses and now I can live comfortably even after football," Ochomo says. Axe to grind In his characteristic no-holds-barred personality, Ochomo pinpoints certain officials that he believes curtailed his career progression. He accuses certain officials within Bandari FC for denying him lucrative moves to Malta, Tanzanian side Azam FC and Kenyan Premier League side Tusker FC. "I had an opportunity to move to Malta and my agent talked with the club. The official flatly refused and told my agent that it was him who had brought me to Bandari when I was out of form," Ochomo says. While in Rwanda with Bandari during the Kagame Cup, Ochomo claims that the same official scuppered a move to moneybags Azam. "Azam chairman Said Salim Awadh Bakhresa wanted to talk to me and our chairman Hassan Musa asked this official to take me up to his (Bakhressa's) hotel. However, the official did not do that until we returned to Mombasa. When the chairman later asked him about the meeting, he feigned forgetfulness," he narrates. The player further alludes to a move to Tusker that was equally nipped in the bud by the same official. "I later learnt that he wanted a different player who was on loan from Bandari to Zoo to seal the switch instead. I regret a lot missing out on the opportunity to move to Malta because it could have been a stepping stone to better things," he says. Through his own narration, it seems Ochomo's time at Bandari was not the most enjoyable. He also accuses a member of the technical bench of arrogance and intimidation of players. "I am not afraid to say that this is the worst coach I've ever worked under. All he would do was tell us about his own playing career and how many big clubs wanted him. He really made me lose the love for the game," Ochomo says. Responding to the claims, Musa admits that the Tanzanian giants registered their interest in Ochomo and that the club had sanctioned the move. He denies that there was any club official who sabotaged the move, suggesting that it might have been Azam who cooled their interest. "I never had any reason to send any official to talk to Azam and any such suggestions are baseless. You have to talk to Azam to tell you the real reason why they never went beyond showing interest by signing the player but as a club, in my time, we never stood in the way," Musa says. A potential comeback? Going by his physique alone, many would readily admit Ochomo was born to be a soldier. When the opportunity to go for training came, he was away in Qatar for trials with different clubs in the Gulf state. "When I came back, the recruits were two months into training and our chairman Mwinyikai said I could not join them and that is how the opportunity went," he regrets. Regardless, Ochomo insists his time at Ulinzi was the best. "It did not matter that you were a civilian. Whenever you played well, you were given the due recognition," he says. Past setbacks and missed opportunities behind him, the big centre forward hopes he can return to the pitch for one last hurrah. "I feel there is still much I can offer particularly in the national team.When in the squad, watching how the likes of Olunga (Michael), Ayub Timbe and Victor Wanyama carried themselves around, I just want to have that chance again,"Ochomo, whose role model locally is Harambee Stars legend Dennis Oliech, says.