MP Justus Murunga was buried on Saturday in Lugari. The collapse death of the 60-year-old shocked his colleagues who said he should have gotten help sooner. On November 14, Christel Murunga was upstairs in their village home and called her husband on the phone to take his supper and shower. Murunga took the call and answered, "Aaya." That was the last time she heard from him. Murunga, who had been ailing for two weeks. He collapsed. He was rushed to a hospital in Matungu, Kakamega county, where the doctors pronounced him dead. "That's how he left me, without saying bye and without any last word," Murunga's second wife-widow Christabel said. She spoke during the funeral service for the father of 10 on Thursday at St Stephen's Church, Nairobi. His mistress had blocked the burial until DNA samples could be could collected to establish paternity. She and her two children were allowed to participate in the burial service. The widow said Murunga had traveled to Mombasa in late October, promising to be a way only for a week. Five days later, he traveled back, but not to his Nairobi home. He went straight to Matungu, which he represented in Parliament, to participate in a fundraiser. When he returned, he started ailing and twice was admitted at Aga Khan Hospital in Kisumu. His first wife-widow Grace Murunga moved the congregation by describing how they started from poverty, struggling through life until he got a break. "We travelled a long way," she said. "Justus was always determined, visionary and never giving up. He provided for all the children, having a special relationship with them," she said of their 30 years of marriage. The lawmaker was buried on Saturday in Matungu constituency. Politicians who attended the service included ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Senators Johnson Sakaja, Amos Wako, Cleophas Malala and others. MPs included Majority Whip Emanuele Wangwe, Ben Washiali, Ayub Savula, Florence Mutua among others. Without mentioning names, Mudavadi appeared to criticise Deputy President William Ruto's stand on the BBI process as vague, saying he had to take a stand and let the process be concluded. "We should not let the country talk about BBI forever. It's time to take a stand and conclude the process so that in 2022, we only focus on one thing, the general election," he said. The former vice president and deputy PM deplored the state of the economy, which he described as "deteriorating and in need of urgent intervention or it will continue bleeding". (Edited by V. Graham)