The government will support legislation to remove taxes on imports on equipment used by people living with disabilities. Deputy President William Ruto said that leaders representing people with disabilities have sought his help to lower the taxes imposed on the equipment. Ruto added that AIC Cure International Hospital, Kijabe executive director Abed Kilonzi has also visited him seeking assistance since they import some equipment which are charged high taxes. The hospital treats bones, cleft lip and cleft palate, among other deformities in children and a few in adults for free. "When MPs table the bill, the government will stand ready to support them lower the assistive devices used by the PLWDs," he said. Ruto spoke at Kijabe on Thursday during an event to mark this year's international day for persons with disabilities. The DP also opened a 15-bed cleft lip and cleft palate ward at the facility built by Smile Train. The beds were bought by his office. Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wa and nominated MP David Ole Sankok said they will co-sponsor a bill to zero-rate assistive devices used by persons with disabilities. Sankok said while some items were zero-rated, some devices persons with disabilities use to walk, ride on and improve their mobility were not touched. Former Lari MP Mburu Kahangara said the hospital has touched people's lives yet it imports devices and other equipment amid a huge tax burden, only to give them to patients for free. Kahangara asked legislators to move with speed and table the bill. "The MPs need to move very fast and assist the PLWDs and their sponsors. These are people born with different abilities, but need our support," he said. Kilonzi told the DP and the participants that they are looking forward to building an additional block to help them serve their patients better. Ruto pledged to offer Sh5 million towards achieving their plans. The DP said the government will spend Sh200 million to assist 42,000 persons with disabilities to meet their needs. The government will monitor money given to private institutions so as to ensure the funds are spent well, he said. Ruto said the government is keen on knowing how the money was spent by institutions that benefit from state funds.