Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i on Thursday cautioned politicians against inciting members of the public as the 2022 General Elections near. He said while every Kenyan has the right to freedom of speech, the government will not allow abuse of constitutional liberties. Matiang’i spoke during the NCIC’s launch of the 'Roadmap for Peaceful 2022 Elections' at Kenya School of Government in Nairobi. He said there were people spreading hate on social media platforms. Matiang'i called on NCIC to partner with the Communication Authority of Kenya in tracking down internet hatemongers. “Vigilante groups have moved to social media with divisive mobilisation working for politicians,” he said. “We must have peaceful elections in 2022. It is the people of Kenya who decide who their leaders are. We must live with that reality.” Matiang’i also cautioned FM and community radio stations against propagating falsehoods and political messaging that can stoke inter-community violence. He challenged the NCIC and other state agencies in the criminal justice system to be swift in dealing with inciters, saying “it is time to walk the talk." “Sometime we have done too much public relations in our responsibilities. Why are we still talking about these primitive acts? It is time we walk the talk,” he said. “I am looking forward to the day people will be disqualified from running for office on account of their behaviour.” The 'super minister' called on NCIC to start activating talks with other state agencies involved in preparations for the 2022 General Election. “Start asking the hard questions to relevant institutions such as the Judiciary and the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission on their readiness for the general election,” the CS said. Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho accused politicians of dividing Kenyans. The PS said the demonstrations witnessed in the country after the 2017 General Election led to police  buying of tear gas and related equipment. “We were spending Sh10 million feeding police during the demonstrations. Some of the tear gas we bought is still in the warehouse and almost expiring, hence, that is why when we get a chance, we use it,” he said. NCIC chairman Samuel Kobia said his team will be “the keeper of truth and virtue”. “Our oath is to ensure that Kenya and Kenyans are peaceful. The days when this commission was silent are over,” he said. (Edited by A. Ndungu) 