 Deputy President William Ruto has launched a fresh charm offensive in the Coast following his triumph over ODM leader Raila Odinga in the Msambweni parliamentary by-election earlier this month. The DP arrived in Taita Taveta county on Tuesday afternoon barely a day after Raila Odinga landed in neighbouring Kwale. In Msambweni, Ruto backed independent candidate Feisal Bader who triumphed over ODM's Omar Boga during the December 15 election. Buoyed by the victory, the DP is keen to cement his growing influence in the Coastal region which has for decades been perceived as Raila's stronghold. Upon his arrival, Ruto met leaders from across the county. On Wednesday morning, he held a meeting with leaders including MPs Naomi Shaban (Taveta), Jones Mlolwa (Voi), Lydia Haika (Woman Representative). Others were former Governor John Mruttu and former Woman Representative Joyce Lay. “Our country's economic recovery will require that leaders combine their efforts with a common purpose. We must break all political barriers, team up and put together ideas and resources to help uplift the living standards of the millions of Kenyans who are struggling at the lower end of the wealth pyramid,” Ruto later wrote on his Facebook page. In the run-up to the 2017 General Election, Ruto led an aggressive campaign to make inroads in the region that overwhelmingly voted for ODM in 2013. In Kwale county, Jubilee party won the gubernatorial seat through Governor Salim Mvurya who defected from ODM after falling out with the party leadership. Jubilee also won the Lunga Lunga parliamentary seat through Khatib Mwashetani who had been elected on a Ford Kenya ticket in 2013. After the March 9, 2018, handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila, Ruto has visited the Coast countless times to drum up support for his State House bid, promoting the 'hustler versus dynasties' narrative. Lay told the Star on phone that the meeting “was just a get-together for both elected and non-elected leaders”. “We had leaders from the county. When you see us come together, that should tell you where the voice of our people is. So it was just a beginning of unifying the team and how to bring others on board,” Lay said. “There was no agreement on who will run for this or that position,” she added. In 2019, Ruto hosted MCA from the county who have had an on and off working relationship with Governor Granton Samboja. On Thursday morning, the DP will be in Kwale county to lead the “hustler nation” during the homecoming ceremony for the newly elected Msambweni MP Feisal Bader. Bader pulled a surprising win with 15,251 votes against Omar Boga’s 10,444. After the victory celebrations that will take place at Babla Secondary School, Ruto will drive to Mombasa county where he will usher in the new year.  