The Covid-19 pandemic has wreaked havoc worldwide with nearly 78.7 million infections as at December 24. With over 1.73 million deaths, it is easy to see why stringent measures had to be taken by governments globally to curb the infection rate. Many different tactics were put in place to minimize the risk of infections while still being able to run the economy and keep the people fed, clothed and housed. The most commonly practiced technique of these measures is advising people to stay home and try minimize contact with other people. In doing this, the novel coronavirus has less hosts to infect and thus the spread is greatly reduced. But how can all the people of a society be asked to remain in their homes for months on end while still being expected to deliver on their work load and hope to get paid at the end of the month? Where will the food they need to survive come from? How is the economy supposed to stay running while millions of people lose their jobs and are forced to stay home, thus not earning the money that they so desperately need to keep the lights on and food on their table? It has been well over eight months since the first case was recorded in the country. Communities have had to shift their focus to survival. Millions of Kenyans have been laid off from their jobs yet many of them were depended on by their families and next of kin. How do those they were working so hard to support, survive this pandemic without the crumbs that they were receiving from their honest and hardworking families? Every single person has to adjust to a new life. What has been termed as 'the new normal' which consists of rules and regulations must be adhered to by the people of a country to help curb the spread of the virus. Some of these rules are; wearing of PPEs in the form of facemasks, carrying around hand sanitizer and maintaining a social distance of 1.5 meters when out in public, for those that must  be out and about and cannot work from home. All these contingencies must be followed to the letter to ensure that a very small number of the general public become infected by the virus. The problem is, some of these measures are challenging to follow, especially for those with underlying health issues. There are some people who find it hard to breathe through the face masks. Moreover, let's not forget about the fact that most Kenyans don't like to follow rules anyway, so you may find that even though someone could have stayed home and avoided the risk of catching this virus, they instead opt to go visit a friend, or enjoy a meal or drinks with some companions. Some even go as far as to not wear PPEs, for reasons unknown. It could be out of protest, genuine inability to function while wearing them or even in some cases straight up rebelliousness. Whatever the case, the risk of either catching or spreading the virus is still very much palpable. Small businesses and big companies have also been affected by the resurgence of the virus and have put in place their own set of guidelines to keep their employees safe while still maintaining a safe environment for their customers and clients. There are some establishments that will not allow people into their premises without a mask on their face and a body temperature exceeding 37 degrees centigrade. All this is to ensure smooth operations of the business keep flowing while maintaining caution and safety for all. Kenyans are a following type of people, in the sense that we really take to heart what our leaders say and do. And while people are dying in hospitals or in their homes, the leaders are simply moving on with their lives and campaigning for their future aspirations, instead of rallying behind its people to help heal the nation and secure our children's future. The result of these shenanigans by our leaders, is the complete and utter disregard by the people, of the stringent measures set in place to try protect our nation from the deadly coronavirus. This in turn affects every single person in the country because the day that everything can return to normal keeps getting pushed forward by the daily increase of infections and deaths. There is a lot of blame that can be thrown around, but ultimately it is up to us as individuals to face the reality of the situation and become our brothers and sisters keepers. Don't just sit back and wait for a solution to be provided; save your fellow neighbour from risk by adhering to the measures set in place by the WHO and enforced by the government. There is no need to feel 'special', thus relaxing from your obligation to stay alive and healthy by trying to show or prove something that doesn't exist. Let's learn to put aside our pride and ego's for the sake of our children and future generations. Until a stable, more viable and long term solution is created, it is our duty to stay at home where possible and follow the guidelines set in place to help us avoid getting infected. As the Health CS Muthi Kagwe said, "If we treat this virus normally, it will treat us abnormally."