ODM leaders at the Coast have called for party unity, following losses in Msambweni constituency and Wundanyi ward by-elections on December 15. Feisal Bader beat ODM’s Omar Boga to the Msambweni parliamentary seat. An independent candidate, Bader was supported by Deputy President William Ruto. ODM Party nearly lost the Dabaso ward by-election as its candidate triumphed with a 148-vote margin. Magarini MP Michael Kingi said ODM members were split in the battle for the three seats. In Dabaso, Kingi said Kilifi North MP Owen Baya supported a rival candidate yet he’s an ODM member. Speaking in Malindi, Kingi said it is wrong for the leadership to be divided in such a manner. “What happened in Dabaso is what transpired in Msambweni because it's the same leaders from the region who were fighting,” he said. The legislator said attacks traded by Boga's and Bader’s supporters were directed to the coast leadership, weakening them. “We want to see a scenario whereby whoever is declared as a candidate is not allied to an individual but for all coast leaders to have a bargaining power even at the national government,” he said. Kingi termed the by-elections a lesson for the Coast region to speak in one voice. He said personal interests are to blame for the divisions. “There are coastal leaders who have agreed to be used by leaders from outside the region; they are given money to come and pretend they are preaching unity yet it is for their own gains,” he said. ODM Youth league chair for Kilifi Samir Nyundo who led the Dabaso campaigns said they are happy with the victory but admitted it was not an easy win. He said they conceded defeat in both Msambweni and Wundanyi because the people had spoken. It's time for ODM leaders to sit and speak the truth as there is an invasion in the region by the Tangatanga movement led by Ruto, he said. “For many years we have been boasting that Coast is an ODM stronghold, now we have been invaded; it's open that team hustler has gained entry and this has affected the ODM party,” he said. Nyundo urged party leader Raila Odinga to call an urgent meeting to lay out a strategy to reclaim the region. “We want to send a message that it's time we sit down and restrategise as this is a bad sign,” he said. Nyundo said the Dabaso victory has proved Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi has strong foot soldiers on the ground and deserved to lead the region. The youth league chair told disloyal ODM elected members who campaigned for rival candidates to resign and seek re-election. “The people we were fighting with in the by-election are those who know the party's tactics and if they feel they are fit to stand with their own parties let them resign and seek fresh elections,” he said.  Edited by Damaris Kiilu