Signatures were collected on the basis of the published BBI Bill. If you want to amend the Bill, then you will have to discard the signatures and start afresh. This comes with a price. It tells you that the Bill was rushed. Some politicians were pushing for the Bill to be kept in abeyance as consultations were being made. The politicians who are pushing for amendment of the Bill are the same ones who told the country that there was no more room for changes. They said there were no more consultations to be made. They have been talking of a train that has left the station and reggae that cannot be stopped. Now, why is it being stopped to allow changes? When a Bill has been published in the popular initiative way of amending the Constitution, that becomes the only position. Signatures have been collected on the basis or on the strength of the Bill that is already out. Legally, the signatures should be discarded as they cannot stand in support of a Bill that has been subjected to amendments. What is happening is a clear sign that the owners of BBI, who are now pushing for changes, are not acting in good faith. There should be no hurry when it comes to constitution-making, if indeed it is for posterity and the good of the country. The country's leadership should have all its attention on how to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic and its effects on the economy. The country is about to spend Sh14 billion on a referendum that can wait, yet we have more than 1.5 million Kenyans who have lost jobs and health workers who do not have sufficient personal protective equipment. The BBI task force spent Sh10 billion. If the country eventually holds a referendum, those leading 'No' should also be funded by government. We should get our priorities right as a country. If the proponents of the amendments will proceed to introduce changes to the Bill and submit it to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission without collecting fresh signatures, any member of the public who is a registered voter can move to court to challenge the procedure. The High Court advocate spoke to the Star