Domestic violence can take various forms. It could be sexual, physical or physiological. A man was on Wednesday arraigned in a Nairobi court for allegedly forcing his wife to perform anal sex. The man is said to have committed the “unnatural offence contrary to the Sexual Offences Act” since August this year. When he appeared before court, he said the police had given his wife the wrong name. "This is a wrong name indicated in the charge sheet. Since I married her, I have never seen this name," he told the court. The magistrate released him on Sh500,000 bond. *** A man charged with obtaining money by false pretenses told the court that the prosecutor in his case was a friend to the complainant and they usually meet at a drinking joint. "They drink and together. They are good friends, your honour. I feel I will not get justice in this court. I don’t have faith in him," the suspect said. When the magistrate asked the prosecutor to ascertain the claims, the state counsel said that everyone has a right to associate and mingle with others as per the law. "I have friends and we mingle. The law allows freedom of expression but I don’t know the complainant,” he told the magistrate. *** Imagine your biological mother taking you to court for allegedly stealing Sh75. Well, it actually happens. A man was on Thursday arraigned at a Nairobi court for allegedly stealing his mother's Sh75, with which she said she intended to buy food with. The war between the son and the mother extended to the court, with the former saying that even if he is jailed, the latter would still look for him, as she has no any other child. "Sir, I am the first and the last-born. I don't care what the court will say concerning this issue but she will look for me later," he said. But on realising it was not actually a serious matter, the man told the court to forgive him as he is a good Christian of good values. "I love God and I pray this court not to jail me," he said. The magistrate directed that the matter be mentioned on Friday for further directions