Kenya Simbas are lined up to play two matches against Stellenbosch University Select next year in April. Head coach Paul Odera said it was key for the side to stay competitive after seeing the entire 2020 season cancelled due to the coronavirus pandemic. To help realise the dream of playing the two fixtures against Stellenbosch, the Simbas have enlisted two South African consultants — former Springbok Neil De Kock, who is a kicking coach and will help with the backline and former Saracens skipper, Ernst Joubert — who will help with the forward, strengthen the scrum, lineout and other set-piece moves. The duo were to prepare Kenya Under 20 outfit, Chipu, team this year in preparation for the Barthes Cup which was shelved due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Odera said he hopes the team can be given the green light to start training in January to enable them to be match fit for the trip down south. "My hope is that we will be given the chance by the federation to start training in January in order to be competitive when we play their two matches in South Africa. If we can train for three to four months, while still following all the Covid-19 protocols, we will be in good shape,” said Odera. Shujaa and Lionesses have been given go-ahead to resume training ahead of the Olympics next year in Tokyo. "Right now with no league played and the players not having played for eight months the coaching team will use players we used last year for training,” added Odera. The former international said the status of the Africa Cup 2021 will be known next week when the various coaches meet via zoom with Rugby Africa. "We will know next week once we have our meeting and deliberate if it will be played," said Odera. The trip to South Africa will cost Sh20 million and plans are underway to fundraise for the tour which will take 11 days. Meanwhile, Odera noted that the standard of Kenya Cup league has to improve if the national team is to perform well in their hunt for qualification for the Rugby World Cup in 2023 in France. "The national team must improve if the standards rugby. I have spoken to various Kenya Cup coaches as we look on how we can improve on the various facets of play,” added Odera.