Salim Kibulangawi, 36, has finally been registered as a person with disability after three years of futile attempts following advice from a friend in Mombasa. His registration with the National Council for Persons With Disability will enable him to get a special disability identity card. This card is an official recognition by the government that he is a PWD and will enable him to get assistive devices from the government once he applies. “I had tried a few times to be registered but I have always missed out for one reason or another,” said an elated Kibulangawi on phone. Kibulangawi, who lost his left leg and left wrist through a fatal accident that also claimed the lives of his wife and son in Mombasa five years ago, has been selling fish bought from fishermen. He used to fish on his own before the accident. The NCPWD conducts the registration twice per year. However, this time Muslims for Human Rights funded the exercise in Lamu, Kwale and Tana River counties. Out of these, at least 4,000 PWDs have been registered with the council. Muhuri acting executive director Rahma Gulam told the Star they received requests for help from PWDs in the three counties who had been feeling left out. “For PWDs to be assisted by the government or any well-wisher, it is required that they are officially registered as PWDs by the council," said Gulam, who spoke to the Star on phone. “Some of these PWDs were not registered and this made them always miss out on help from the government at both the national and county levels.” NCPWD Lamu officer Benjamin Kosgei said the disability card is useful for the government’s planning purposes. “A disability card opens up many opportunities for the PWDs. That is why it is important that they be registered and be issued with the card,” said Kosgei. In Lamu, at least 1,000 PWDs have been registered after Muhuri funded the exercise. However, not all PWDs are registered, according to Kosgei. He said registration involves assessment by a doctor on whether one qualifies to be registered by the NCPWD. “Once the doctor recommends that one be registered, that is when we register them and the benefits follow,” said Kosgei. Benefits include the inclusion of the government cash transfer program. Mwalimu Mwabwanga, the Kwale county PWD Network coordinator, told the Star some 1,289 PWDs have now been registered after Muhuri’s intervention. “Working with Muhuri, we registered people in 11 out of the 20 wards in Kwale,” said Mwabwanga. He said the turn was higher but due to capacity issues, they registered only about half of those who turned up. Out those registered, Mwabwanga said, 208 were found to be in dire need of assistive devices including wheelchairs, walking crutches, tricycles, among others. “About 200 were also included in the government cash transfer program and are now receiving cash from the government to mitigate against the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Mwabwanga. Gulam said the remaining nine wards in Kwale will be covered once funds are available. Mwabwanga said in Kwale, about 155 people were being included in the cash transfer program per sub-county. He said after registration, some 200 PWDs in Kwale got aid from a well-wisher, who donated some 200 wheelchairs to them. Gulam said because of their efforts, Lamu, Kwale, and Tana River counties have included PWDs in their budgets. “The needs assessment done for all the listed PWDs means now we know who needs what, and going forward, our help will be need-based, not general,” she said. She spoke to the Star a day after they marked the World Human Rights Day on Thursday, December 10. This year’s theme was “Recover Better – Stand Up for Human Rights”. It relates to the Covid-19 pandemic and focuses on the need to build back better by ensuring human rights are central to recovery efforts. “We are helping build back better and recover from losses caused by the pandemic, just as intended in this year’s Human Rights Day,” said Gulam. "Out of the over 4,000 registered PWDs, at least 2,000 were from Kwale, 1,000 from Lamu, and 1,000 from Tana River," Gulam said. “We are creating equal opportunities for all and reducing inequalities, exclusion, and discrimination facing PWDs, and which the pandemic is exploiting.”