The public can help the fight against corruption by demanding effective services from state officers without paying bribes, anti-graft agency chairman Eliud Wabukala has said. Wabukala said empowering the public on the evils and effects of corruption is useful in combating graft at the county and national governments. He spoke in Kiambu on Wednesday during preparations to host this year's International Anti-corruption Day.  President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to lead the event in Ndumberi Stadium on December 9. Governor James Nyoro hosted Wabukala and other Ethics and Anti-corruption Commission officials to launch week-long activities to climax in the fete. The theme for this year's celebrations is ‘Recover with Integrity’. The Kenya Leadership Integrity Forum is also holding activities in Nandi and Nyamira counties to sensitise residents on the need to fight corruption. Wabukala said the Covid-19 pandemic will not derail the fight against corruption. Measures are in place to mitigate the risk of mismanagement of public resources during response to the pandemic. “We have enhanced law enforcement activities by undertaking inquiries into reported incidents and unethical conduct, heightened gathering and sharing information with relevant stakeholders, monitoring utilisation of public funds, integrity vetting for public appointments and advisories to procuring entities to comply with relevant laws,” Wabukala said. Nyoro said that the county government has adopted a cashless system in all revenue collection points. “Due to health measures, we have eliminated cash transactions. This will also minimise the loss of revenue through corruption and financial loopholes. This has seen our revenue collections increase,” Nyoro said. The county boss said that Kiambu residents should put the county government on their toes regarding corruption and provide information on any malpractices. “Corruption does not only exist in offices; while we donated foodstuffs to the vulnerable we would find the foodstuffs being sold in markets, shopping centres and other places,” Nyoro said. “We need to hold each other accountable for the small resources we have and that is the way we are going to experience transformation.”