Kenya Sevens’ skipper Andrew Amonde believes the build-up tournaments lined up in the new year will be a big boost as they prepare for the Tokyo Olympic Games. Shujaa has been lined up to play tournaments in France and Spain in February and Amonde believes the tournaments are key building blocks if the country is to win a medal at the Tokyo bonanza. “The tournaments will help us in terms of building momentum right now. We don’t know if the World Sevens Series will resume and so we must get a couple of tournaments under our belt in readiness for the Olympics,” he added. Amonde said the target for the squad will be to medal at the global extravaganza to make up for a disastrous performance at the 2016 Rio Games, where they finished 11th in the 12-team tournament. “We must do better this time round. I think with the squad that we have and the coach and our level of preparations, we should do much better,” he noted. Shujaa resumed training last month with the players being tested for Covid-19 . The team is training in three groups on different days. Opponents like New Zealand, South Africa and Fiji have also started training for the Olympics. The players are allowed to run at the RFUEA ground and do a bit of gym work but contact drills like line-outs, scrummages  and rucks are not allowed due to Covid-19 protocols. Amonde, who last month played for South African franchise Sfx 10 at the World 10 -a-side tournament in Bermuda alongside top try scorer Collins Injera, Oscar Ouma and Willy Ambaka, termed the tournament as an eye opener. “It was a good tournament, quite competitive, very different from the Sevens format we play in the World Series and it gave us a platform to build on for next year,” said Amonde. Elsewhere, High Performance Consultant Peter Harding has joined Kenya Rugby Union on a three-month renewable secondment from World Rugby. During his secondment, Harding will be tasked with assisting the KRU prepare teams, specifically the KRU Women’s 7s for the Tokyo Olympics in 2021. He will also assist the KRU women’s 15’s team in their return to training and eventual preparation for the 2021 Rugby World Cup repechage qualifier against Colombia.