Embattled Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko will be forced to defend himself against allegations levelled against him before all 67 senators. This after Senate Majority Leader Samuel Poghisio declined to give a notice of motion for the formation of 11 members to investigate allegations against the county boss. “The leader of the majority has declined to give a notice of motion … in the absence of that, the motion cannot proceed,” Speaker Kenneth Lusaka said. Earlier, the speaker ruled that the House was only left with Poghisio who was the sponsor for the motion that was meant to deal with the governor’s impeachment. The names of the proposed 11 members were unveiled only minutes before the session held that was held on Wednesday at 2.30 pm. They were Samson Cherargei (Nandi), Charles Kibiru (Kirinyaga), Hargura Godana (Marsabit), Abdullahi Ali (Wajir), Alice Milgo (nominated) and Christine Zawadi (nominated). Others were Okongo Omogeni (Nyamira), Mohammed Faki (Mombasa), Judith Pareno (nominated), Petronilla Were (nominated) and Fred Outa (Kisumu). As a result, the speaker said that the house was left with the only option of prosecuting the governor’s case by the whole house. He said the hearing will be conducted on December 17 and 18. The speaker said the system will help reduce congestion in the chamber as a precaution to protect members from contracting Covid -19. “In line with the Covid-19 guidelines, I have determined that it is indeed imperative that we hold a hybrid virtual sitting to accommodate our colleagues who are not in a position to attend and participate physically.” The order sparked fierce reactions from the members who pushed him to rescind the decision. The lawmakers will comprise the integrity of the parliamentary proceedings and called on him to shelve it. “I see a lot of room for mischief. Let's suspend the operationalisation of this system and do a mock exercise first,” Narok Senator Ledama Ole Kina said. Senators Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet), Mithika Linturi (Meru), Aaron Cheruiyot (Kericho) and Moses Kajwang (Hama Bay) asked the speaker to suspend his directive.