Amani National Congress party leader Musalia Mudavadi has said the outcome of Msambweni by-election is a wake-up call to the Kenyan leadership. He said the results were a pointer to anger and frustration on the ground and the leadership and Kenyans could be reading from different scripts. "It's a wake-up call that moving forward, Kenyans would like the leadership to listen and hear what they feel and want instead of imagining that they already know what they (Kenyans) want, " he said in his congratulatory message to Feisal Bader, the MP-elect. Bader on Tuesday pulled a surprise victory against Orange Democratic Movement's Omar Boga in the race to replace Suleiman Dori who died in March. ODM leader Raila Odinga has said that his party did not suffer a blow as Bader cut his political teeth in the Orange party and therefore “our man won”. Mudavadi said the results in Msambweni indicated that there was anger and frustration on the ground and people reeling from the ailing economy need messages of hope. "The results say that the pulse on the ground is different from what the leadership thinks is. They are sending a message that 'don't be presumptuous or assume that you know what we want. Listen to us'," he said. During campaigns for the ODM candidate, Raila had framed the by-election a contest against politicians opposed to the BBI process and insisted that a loss would signal turbulence for the BBI in the constituency. "This election will be a control experiment to show is the BBI will succeed or not. If ODM will be defeated here, then the BBI will have a problem," he said in Msambweni. The outcome seen as Deputy President William Ruto's decisive victory has sent President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila back to the drawing board over 2022 political calculations. Political analysts say the BBI could face hiccups despite the 'No' side lacking a definite face. The handshake team will have to put their best foot forward as other losses in the impending Matungu and Kabuchai parliamentary by-elections would spell doom for the push for constitutional reforms. Matungu goes to the by-election to replace Justus Murunga on March 4, 2021. Raila has already indicated that ODM will be fielding a candidate in Matungu. 