Being an MP may not be as easy and plain sailing as a youthful legislator from Western Kenya realised recently. The MP now says he is fed up with the job in Parliament (pictured) because people in his constituency, particularity the youth, do not show him the slightest bit of appreciation for what he does for them. Holding back tears as he lamented about the stresses of his job, the first-term lawmaker told youths in his village that he would take a laid-back attitude and just wait for his term to end. The MP had just been chased away by acquisitive youths from a development project in the area. The MP complained that such behaviour was the reason legislators disappear to Nairobi once elected. ***** Still in Parliament, a clique of legislators has special but unspecified interests in some top companies. The clique is said to be making endless allegations in Parliament and demanding statements from these firms. Last week a seemingly modest MP is said to have demanded a team handling a matter involving several companies summon all the parties at once. He made the demand despite being given an explanation of the sequence of events around the issue. Past attempts to solve the issue were foiled, indicating that some members may be pursuing selfish interests as opposed to fighting for the rights of Kenyans.  A deputy governor from Nyanza has become the laughingstock of constituents for using roads built by a neighbouring county to access his home. The road leading to his home is full of huge potholes. The road was built not long ago but is already dilapidated. The high-ranking officer is now forced to travel many kilometres in the morning and evening to avoid the potholed road. ***** Disquiet is said to be building among policewomen following communication from Vigilance House regarding their dress code. The communication observed that policewomen wear fancy hairstyles that violate the dress code. The memo ordered them to wear modest hairstyles that do not hinder the wearing of headgear lest they face disciplinary action. They were further asked not to wear makeup while on duty. The disgruntled policewomen say it feels like they are back in high school. We might as well be ordered to cut our hair to settle the problem once and for all, they fumed.