The ongoing nurses’ and clinical officers' strike has made life much more difficult for Emish Ochieng, an HIV patient. For Ochieng' and other persons living with HIV, regular hospital visits to check viral load and discuss their medication are a necessity to manage their health. It is the nurses who take patients through their clinic visits. “Now there is no one to do all that. One is just given the medication for three months whether you are having problems with medications or not, even those who need check-ups every month. We are just given drugs, taken viral load test and told to go home,” Ochieng told the Star on Thursday. In the absence of the nurses, their roles have been taken over by peer educators and adherence counsellors who have little knowledge of clinical matters. “This stalemate should be resolved because most dispensaries and health centres are controlled by nurses. They really mean a lot especially in the rural areas,” Ochieng said. There are thousands of patients like Ochieng on treatment for chronic ailments such as HIV, cancer, diabetes and hypertension. Many are likely to default if the strike is prolonged. Interrupted care for them will worsen their condition. Other health services affected by the strike include child immunisation programmes and mental health services. Even without a strike, many preventable deaths occur in the hospitals because of inadequate investment in facilities, training and staffing. The strike is likely to worsen this. Nurses and clinical officers have been on strike for close to two weeks, with most of the conciliatory meetings organised between the unions and the government officials aborting. The healthcare workers are demanding quality personal protective equipment, comprehensive medical cover, salaries paid on time, promotion and compensation packages and exemption from duty of those in the vulnerable groups. They include those who are pregnant, those above 55 years and those with preexisting medical conditions. So far, the country has lost 13 doctors, 29 nurses and nine clinical officers majority of whom had underlying medical conditions. “It is worth noting that, almost all health workers who have succumbed to Covid-19 belong to the vulnerable group of elderly, pregnant and those with preexisting conditions and diseases,” KUCO secretary-general George Gibore said. “These deaths would have been avoided had the government heeded our advisories and those of WHO to exempt these categories from active duty.” Poor Kenyans who cannot afford to go to private health facilities have been left to suffer, as private hospitals continue to cash in on the situation. The unions have blamed the government parties and the Council of Governors for not taking the matter with the seriousness it deserves. They have vowed to stay put until all their grievances are addressed. The government has maintained that there is enough PPE in the country. It has also ordered the county governments to release the PPE lying idle at Kemsa over a procurement scandal that is currently under investigation. "There is no progress. The stumbling block is the Council of Governors and the SRC. The same thing they have been telling us for the past seven years is the same thing they are telling us even today,” KNUN secretary-general Seth Panyako told the Star. The fear is, should nothing be done soon, the situation is likely to reverse the gains made in the fight against chronic diseases, especially at the time when the country is still trying to pick up from the effects of Covid-19 on uptake of health services. Edited by Henry Makori 