Transport CS James Macharia on Monday commissioned the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport Express Service this morning. The JKIA expressway is an extension of the Nairobi commuter rail service targeting air travellers and airport users. Speaking at Nairobi Central Railway Station, CS Macharia said the JKIA express route will ensure passengers arrive and depart timely for their trips. "With the JKIA express route it will take 20-25 minutes to the airport this beating traffic along Mombasa Road," he said. The JKIA expressway is an extension of the Nairobi commuter rail service targeting air travellers and airport users. It is expected to target over 24,000 passengers, workers and other users of the airport once it will be launched. Macharia revealed that security will be high whereby air travellers will go through a thorough check-up at various points. "Connecting the airport to CBD means the security must be intact. We inspected the stations to make sure the system is compliant with the highest level of security," he said. Air passengers will have an option of going to JKIA via the commuter rail and BRT buses. They will have to get to the Nairobi Central Railway Station and board the commuter rail train heading to Embakasi. On arrival at Embakasi, the air passengers will undergo security check in order to access the BRT buses heading to JKIA. Airport South road has been specifically set aside for the BRT buses heading to JKIA. On arrival at JKIA, the passengers will undergo another security checkup in order to access the airport area. "I believe the JKIA route will be a major benefit to our travellers heading into and outside the country," Macharia added. Kenya Railways MD Philip Maingi revealed passengers willing to use the JKIA express route will have to part with Sh500. This is inclusive of the BRT buses that will ferry them once they reach the Embakasi station. Maingi said there will be three Diesel Multiple Units leaving Nairobi Central Station to Embakasi Station in the morning and in the afternoon every day. From Embakasi Station, passengers will board the BRT buses to the airport.