The national government has announced measures to check the spread of Covid-19 in Homa Bay during the festive season. County commissioner Moses Lilan said his office has come up with measures that will minimise spread of the disease. Some of the measures include a ban of live bands in clubs, suspension of funeral night vigils and disco matanga. Lilan said the government is working with churches to ensure they minimise number of weddings and attendees. “Security officers have been called back from leave to enable the government implement the measures for the safety of residents,” Lilan said. Christmas and New Year celebrations are around the corner and everyone is gearing up to celebrate. Many people travel from major towns as families visit relatives in the countryside. Entertainment joints are making final touches to receive guests during the season. Speaking to journalists in Homa Bay town, Lilan who chairs the county emergency committee and the Covid-19 emergency response committee said they are prepared to contain the disease during the festivities. “We still want strict adherence to curfew and other protocols to contain the spread of the virus,” he said. Lilan said they are working together with the county government to ensure they contain possible spread of the disease in the county. Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata told residents to ensure they abide by directives issued by the Ministry of Health to suppress the spread of the virus. He asked parents to monitor their children so that they can return to schools safely in January. More than 180 people have contracted Covid-19 in Homa Bay since the outbreak of the virus. “Let our people not engage in activities likely to breach the law especially this festive season because we want to fight the virus,” Orata said. The directive has however disappointed some business owners and operators. Those who spoke on condition of anonymity said the conditions put by the government to control the spread of Covid-19 hurt their business. Edited by Henry Makori