Many parents raising autistic children have the same appeal for an autistic centre to be built in Mombasa to help their children be recognised. Nominated MCA Hamidah Noor raised a motion calling for its construction. It was passed and is pending implementation . “I saw all the other PWDs have something like schools, but autistic children do not have anything, and no one recognises this group of children,” Noor said. She said in Mombasa, there are around 300 autistic children, which is a high number but nobody knows about them. Nominated MCA representing PWDs Said Ramla has been working with them to create awareness through walks for them to get their rights. Ramla said for anyone to understand autistic children, he or she needs to be patient because they are always hyper and very bright, especially in handicraft. “Most of these children stay at home after finishing their primary education. Parents suffer a lot because the children are over hyper and the children themselves also suffer because they need special care, which they never get,” she said. Ramla, who has been working with the parents to find a solution in helping the children, said one needs patience to understand and learn their ways and character. Ramla is also the founder of Al-Muqtadir Ability Centre, an organisation that helps PWDs learn the basic application in Information Technology. The organisation started in 2011 with an aim to empower PWDs. It has 150 students living with disability. “There is a need to come up with a centre for autistic children because things are changing. We have many opportunities for PWDs in county offices and autistic children should be given a chance to show what they can do,” Ramla said. She said a centre should be set up with different departments to help the PWDs in learning artwork, workshop, indoor and outdoor sports because every PWD has his or her own capability. Mary Omboga, a parent with an autistic child, said, “Our children can come to build our own county in future if we embrace them today because they are children who can grow to be independent and to take care of themselves.” Education chief officer John Musuva said the county is working with stakeholders involved in special needs to create opportunities for PWDs. “We have plans for this group of children, and we have also been supporting them by giving them school bursaries from early child, primary, secondary and university education,” he said. He said the department is procuring a minibus to help in ferrying PWDs from their homes to school and from school back home in all the subcounties, a project which will start in January 2021. In partnership with the Health department under the development assessment tool, they will ensure that if a child goes for immunisation, a thorough assessment is done to know if the child has any condition. “Early interventions will be done through the assessment process, where a child will undergo normal therapies, and this will help in recognising any problem,” Musuva said. The department is also working with Hassan Joho foundation to establish a special needs centre in Mombasa, which will help the autistic children explore their talents. “In Mombasa, we have a shortage of special needs teachers. Those who go for retirement are never replaced. But we believe this will be catered for in our centre, which is already upcoming and it is set to be ready by the end of 2021,” Musuva said. The journey of raising an autistic child is an expensive venture and, therefore, parents are appealing to the county government to come in and help them. They want it to provide special foods to their children and therapy fees, which at its cheapest is Sh500 per session. Ramla, who is dedicated and has passion for helping PWDs, urged the parents and the community to love, care, motivate and educate autistic children.