As we prepare to celebrate Christmas and usher in the New Year 2021, I extend a message of goodwill and congratulate all Kenyans for your perseverance and resilience during this very difficult year for Kenya and the world. Indeed, 2020 has been extremely challenging to all of us. Covid-19 has ravaged Kenya and the world since the beginning of the year, wreaking havoc to humanity through massive loss of lives, as well as destruction to economies. Millions of Kenyans have borne the brunt of the devastation caused by Covid-19. Families have been shattered by loss of lives of their members, and many have lost jobs and earnings. Despite the gloom, however, we have held out against all odds and kept our hope alive. We have held steadfast onto the Kenyan spirit of optimism; and our trust and faith in God remains unshaken. I urge all of you, my dear brothers and sisters, to keep up the optimism, faith and resilience as we celebrate this Christmas and usher in 2021. Clearly, the worst of Covid-19 is behind us. With reports of new vaccines coming up, we can only hope for the best, and in this regard, I call upon the Government to lobby for affordable vaccines that would not be out of reach of the common mwananchi. Despite the good news about the vaccines, I urge you, however, not to let down your guards. Covid-19 is still with us. It continues to ravage our towns and rural areas alike. Please do not stop wearing masks, sanitizing, and keeping social distance. We must keep exercising these precautions until this deadly disease is fully contained. At this time, it still portends a great danger to our lives. We must stay ever alert. Given that 2020 has also witnessed heightened political temperatures arising from various by-elections as well as the Building Buildings Initiative, I am calling upon Kenyans to fully embrace the spirit of Nationhood. We may differ in principle, but we are all Kenyans. The ideals that unite are greater than the imaginary walls that divide us. We must never let partisan political interests take precedence over Nationalism. May this Christmas inspire in us Kenyans a desire to embrace one another with love and purity of heart, fully aware that we are children of not only the Great Nation of Kenya, but also share a common Creator! Let us renew our faith and belief in God our Maker, for, a Nation that abides in God’s Law of Love shall never suffer shame among Nations. God Bless You All! God Bless Kenya! One Nation One People. Hon Stephen Kalonzo Musyoka, EGH, is Kenya's Special Envoy to South Sudan.