Somalia has cut its diplomatic ties with Kenya citing constant violation of Somalia’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. Somalia Minister of Information Osman Dubbe announced this at around 1:40 am Mogadishu time on state-run SNTV. Dubbe said Mogadishu will in the next seven days withdraw all its diplomats from Kenya. "Somalia wants all its diplomats to go back to Mogadishu and Kenyan diplomats have seven days to leave the country,’’ Dubbe said. He said Somalia made the decision due to Kenya's frequent ‘interference’ with her politics. Mogadishu accused Nairobi of numerously wanting to create problems in Somalia. The escalation of the diplomatic spat which has led to a ‘divorce’ came hours after Somaliland President Muse Bihi arrived in Kenya on December 13, for a three-day state visit. Bihi was hosted for bilateral talks by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The talks are expected to conclude today before issuing a joint statement. Bihi's visit saw Somalia react saying that Somaliland was undermining its sovereignty. Through its Foreign Affairs, Somalia said Bihi's visit must be treated with all contempt it deserved. The ministry later deleted the tweet. "Somaliland is the federal Member State of Somalia. It, therefore, has no legitimacy to directly deal with Kenya especially now that we have severed our diplomatic ties," part of the tweet read. It also read, "Muse Bihi's visit to Nairobi undermines the sovereignty of Somalia and must be treated with the contempt it deserves". But Somaliland through its Foreign Affairs responded by saying such an irrelevant statement by Somalia shows nothing but only failure and irresponsibility. Somaliland said as an independent country it has a right to make a decision to strengthen its mutual relationship with Kenya which is also an independent country. "The irrelevant statement from the failed administration of Somalia shows nothing but only failure and irresponsibility. The Republic of Somaliland and The Republic of Kenya are two independent countries which has (sic) the right decision to strengthen their mutual relationship, " the tweet read. There has been a looming diplomatic spat between Nairobi and Mogadishu after Farmnajo expelled Kenya's ambassador to Mogadishu Ambassador Lucas Tumbo. Mogadishu cited what it termed as the Kenyan government's interference in its internal and political affairs. "The federal government f Somalia expresses it regret in the government of Kenya's overt and blatant interferences in the internal and political affairs of Somalia which has the potential to be a hindrance to stability," a statement from Somalia's foreign ministry said. But Kenya in its response dismissed the claims terming them unsubstantiated allegations. Nairobi said it had not received any Note Verbale or any other official communication from Mogadishu requesting Kenya’s ambassador to leave for Nairobi for consultations. “However, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ attention has been drawn to a press statement purportedly released by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Federal Republic of Somalia,” a statement from the ministry said. "This action is reportedly based on unsubstantiated allegations, namely, “continued interference in the internal affairs of Somalia”. The Government of Kenya respects and upholds the cardinal international principles of self-determination, sovereignty, political independence, and territorial integrity of all countries, and in particular those in Africa," Nairobi said.