At least 274 journalists were jailed as of December 1, a report has shown. The annual report by the Committee to Protect Journalists –CPJ  indicates that these journalists were imprisoned because of their work in 2020, as governments clamped down on news coverage of civil unrest and the coronavirus pandemic. The number was a slight increase from 2019 where some 272 journalists were imprisoned. The report indicates amid the pandemic, authoritarian leaders tried to control the narrative by arresting journalists, delaying trials, restricting visitors and disregarding the increased health risk in prison. The report reveals at least two journalists died after contracting the coronavirus disease in custody. The report further indicates that two-thirds of journalists in jail were charged with anti-state crimes such as terrorism or membership in banned groups. No charges have been disclosed in 19% of the cases (53cases) being in Eritrea and Saudi Arabia. The report indicates that nearly all journalists jailed worldwide are locals covering their own country. CPJ found at least seven with foreign or dual nationality, imprisoned in China, Eritrea, Jordan, and Saudi Arabia. Another thirty-six journalists, or 13%, are female who covered women’s rights in Iran or Saudi Arabia while several others were arrested covering protests in Belarus. “It’s shocking and appalling that we are seeing a record number of journalists imprisoned in the midst of a global pandemic,” said CPJ Executive Director Joel Simon. He added, “This wave of repression is a form of censorship that is disrupting the flow of information and fueling the infodemic. With COVID 19 raging through the world’s prison, it’s also putting the lives of journalists at risk.” China, which arrested several journalists for their coverage of the pandemic, was the world’s worst jailer for the second year in a row. It was followed by Turkey, which continues to try journalists free on parole and arrest new ones. Egypt, which went to great lengths to keep custody of journalists not convicted of any crime and Saudi Arabia. Countries where the number of jailed journalists rose significantly include Belarus, where mass protests have ensued over the disputed re-election of the long-time president, and Ethiopia, where political unrest has degenerated into armed conflict. According to the report, this marks the fifth consecutive year that repressive governments have imprisoned at least 250 journalists. In China, many of the 47 prisoners are serving long sentences, or are jailed in Xinjiang province without any charge disclosed. In Turkey, where every journalist jailed faces anti-state accusations, the number in prison has declined since a surge in 2016, a year that saw a failed coup attempt in July. As outlet shutdowns, takeovers by pro-government business people, and judicial hostility have effectively eradicated mainstream media, Turkey has allowed more journalists to await trial outside prison. CPJ found 37 journalists imprisoned this year, less than half than in 2016, but authorities continue to arrest journalists — and their lawyers. Because of COVID-19, judicial proceedings were suspended for three months in 2020, prolonging prison for those in custody and anxiety for those free pending trial. In Europe and Central Asia, journalists were caught up in Belarus unrest after President Aleksandr Lukashenko claimed victory for a sixth term in an election widely seen as fraudulent. Dozens of journalists were arrested being sentenced to or administrative detention and prison stay of one to two weeks. Political unrest, in this case leading to armed conflict, led authorities to round up journalists in Ethiopia. At least seven were jailed there including Kenya’s Yassin Juma, compared with one a year earlier. Most of them are accused of anti-state crimes, yet authorities have repeatedly extended their detention in order to investigate, without producing evidence. In Sub-Saharan Africa, a total of 45 journalists were arrested as at December 1. Out of this ‪Eritrea had the highest number with 16 journalists followed by Cameroon ‬with 8, Ethiopia 7, Rwanda 5, Burundi 4, Mali 2, South Sudan 2 and Uganda 1. This number was an increase from 38 journalists arrested in 2019.