The burial of PCEA Nyahururu parish minister Fred Kariuki was temporarily suspended by a Nyahururu court following a complaint by a 25-year-old woman. Priscila Mumbi Mbogo was granted a temporary injunction on Friday last week, stopping the burial which was to be held on Monday. She had moved to court claiming that Kariuki's family had locked her and her children out of his burial arrangements yet he is the father of her four-year-old twins. She told the court that the family of Kariuki had kept her in the dark despite being aware he fathered her twins in 2016. His widow Julia was present during a DNA test conducted at the Government Chemist in 2018 which confirmed Kariuki is their father. Mbogo said Kariuki has been paying for the twins’ maintenance and has faithfully honoured this obligation even on his deathbed and remitted money for December while in the ICU in Nakuru. She wanted the burial suspended until the family engaged in discussions on the future of the children and they be allowed to participate in the burial. The injunction was, however, lifted on Monday and the family allowed to inter the body of the cleric at his home in Losogwa, Laikipia West, on Tuesday. Senior resident magistrate James Wanyanga granted the family the go-ahead but directed that Mbogo and her children be allowed to attend, with the matter scheduled to be revisited in court on December 22. The court further ordered that the family of the parish minister continues maintaining the twins as Kariuki did. “We were hurriedly told the burial must proceed and we have to agree and we shall ventilate these issues in the children’s court," Mbogo's lawyer Wangeci Wangari said. "I had to protest that there cannot be a substitution of the children’s case but the court gave its orders that the burial must proceed and the children be accorded a front seat at the funeral together with their mother.” Wangari said there was no relenting on the matter given that the twin sisters are innocent. She said they are equally entitled to the estate he left just like the rest of his children. The lawyer said the next course of action is to pursue succession, noting the welfare of the children is now shaky as Mbogo, who is an orphan, is a first-year nursing student at a college in Nyeri. It all started in late 2015 when Mbogo met Kariuki online. She was looking for a job as a house girl, which the cleric offered. She, however, did not take over the position as her mother who had been sick for some time deteriorated. Her mother died in 2016 and in February the same year, Kariuki called her informing her the vacancy for a house girl was still available in case she was still interested. She arrived at his home in Losogwa, Laikipia West, around 7.30pm where she found him alone. He informed her that his wife had travelled to the USA and the house girl who worked for them had gone to work for their daughter. “We took supper and he showed me my bedroom. But that very night he came to my bedroom and demanded to have sex with me. I could not resist given I was a stranger in the house with no one but the two of us. The compound is fenced and there is security and also dogs. I did not have anywhere to escape to. I also did not have fare,” she said. After three days in his home, she said, Kariuki ordered her to leave. Later she discovered that she was pregnant but when she informed Rev Kariuki he told her that he was leaving for the USA where his family lived and advised her to procure an abortion, which she declined. After she gave birth, she reported to the Children’s Department but Kariuki was out of the country. When he returned, he went to the Children’s Department where he denied responsibility and demanded a DNA test, accusing Mbogo of tarnishing his reputation. He moved to court and the orders for DNA examination were granted. Samples were obtained from him, Mbogo and the twins at the Government Chemist, Nairobi, on July 17, 2018. His wife Julia was present. The results which were released on August 28, 2020 were positive. They entered a consent for children's maintenance which Mbogo said the cleric, who was in his 70s, observed religiously. His December remittance of Sh12,000 was made on November 29. “He alerted me that he was in ICU at Nakuru due to pneumonia but still paid December maintenance,” Mbogo said. He died on December 5. Edited by Henry Makori