Migori county assembly Speaker Boaz Okoth, his deputy Mathews Chacha and 13 others were on Wednesday released on a bond of Sh3 million each after denying corruption charges. They were all arrested in Migori on Tuesday and locked up at the Kisumu Central police station before being arraigned before Kisumu chief magistrate Peter Gesora on Wednesday. They faced a number of charges including conspiracy to commit the offence of corruption. They all denied the charges. Gesora granted them an alternative bail of Sh300,000 each. The other accused are members of the Migori County Assembly Service Board Roland Asiga, Nicholas Rioba, Clifford Jobando and Meressa Akello. Others are Brian Odhiambo, Emmanuel Kingwara, Tom Onyango, Steve Okelo, Pamawe Construction Company Ltd, Lucy Wanja, James Dhuti, Willis Onyango, Joan Atieno, Guumba Constructors and Pius Oloo. The speaker, board chairman, deputy speaker, board members and supply chain officers are accused of conspiracy to commit an offense of corruption, namely misappropriation of Sh10 million public funds from Migori County Assembly between May 23, 2019 and July 15, 2019. They were also charged with failure to comply with the laws relating to management of public funds. The court heard that between July 19 and October 2019, the accused wilfully failed to comply with applicable law and procedures relating to management of public funds by directing the clerk to expend funds appropriated for development purposes in payment of recurrent expenditures amounting to Sh25.3 million. Acting assembly clerk Emanuel Kingwara was charged with wilful failure to comply with the law relating to procurement and management of public funds. The court heard that between February 20 and May 7, he initiated a procurement and award of contract for construction of Migori speaker's residence which had not been budgeted for. The court documents state that he also transferred Sh25.3 million requisitioned for development expenditure to payment of recurrent activities. Kingwara was also charged with abuse of office and using his office to improperly confer a benefit of Sh13. 4 million to M/S Guumba Contractors Limited. Suspended clerk Tom Onyango was charged with abuse of office. The court heard that Onyango on June 27 at the Migori County Assembly used his office to improperly confer a benefit of Sh6.5 million. Pamawe Construction Company, Wanna and Kibuthi were charged with fraudulent acquisition of the public property. Lawyers Bruce Odeny, Nelson Jura, Paul Ogendi and Erick Ojuro pleaded with the court to release their clients on favourable bond terms. "I pray that my clients be released on reasonable bond terms, urging that since the investigation began the accused never acted in any way meant to frustrate the investigation," Jura said. The case will be mentioned on February 15.