Likuyani MP Enoch Kibunguchy has asked ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang'ula to unite Western leaders under one alliance. The MP said the two parties should form a coalition that will put all regional leaders in one pool to bid for the presidency. He said the new alliance should then carry out joint nominations to present a single candidate for every elective seat to avoid internal completion that will pave the way for other parties to penetrate the region. "An alliance is the way to go because none of the two parties will be willing to dissolve and move into one," Kibunguchy said in Likuyani on Wednesday. He said the joint nominations would avoid unhealthy internal competition between the two parties that would create room for other parties to sneak into the region. He said dissolving the parties would create room for rivals to infiltrate the new outfit. Mudavadi and Wetang'ula have resolved to work together ahead of the next General Election to ensure the vote-rich region speaks with one voice in 2022. To start with, Ford Kenya has pulled out of the March 4 Matungu by-election and will instead back ANC candidate Peter Nabulindo while ANC will support Ford Kenya to recapture the Kabuchai seat that fell vacant following the death of MP James Mukwe. The two leaders earlier explored the possibility of their parties merging but abandoned the idea after learning that Deputy President William Ruto had infiltrated the arrangement. Former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale, who was part of the technical team to explore the merger, has since joined the DP's Tangatanga outfit. Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli has been pushing the two leaders to dissolve their parties and form one that will unite all Luhyas. Currently, ANC, Ford Kenya, ODM, Jubilee and Cyrus Jirongo's United Democratic Party have followers in the vote-rich region. Western has been a fishing ground for decades where every party gets support. Past efforts to have the region present a united front during elections failed. Edited by Henry Makori