Deputy President William Ruto and his allies are expected to issue a statement on Tuesday on their next direction regarding the BBI Bill, which is seeking to make amendments to the 2010 Constitution. The DP is hosting about 150 MPs and governors allied to him at his Karen residence, Nairobi. Ruto is expected to later address the press at 2 pm from his Karen residence. On Tuesday, while attending the burial ceremony of Wanjiku Ngunjiri, the mother of Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri, Ruto said that a consensus is still possible. His remarks come as the collection of signatures for the BBI referendum continues is expected to end tomorrow (Thursday). Recently, the DP appeared to have softened his hardline for the BBI after some of his proposals were featured in the final report. When the BBI report was launched at the Bomas of Kenya in October, Ruto had his reservations and has been campaigning for recognition of the small businesses in the country. Ruto had also said that the issue of job creation as well as boosting youths in business needs to be relooked at. The DP recently claimed through his Twitter account that the ‘New Article 11A in the BBI Constitution bill introduced after Bomas will anchor the ordinary people.' Ruto said that the article will favour the ‘hustler economics of wheelbarrow, boda boda, Mama mboga, pastoralists/butchers and guaranteed minimum returns on coffee, tea, korosho, sugar and,maize. The DP said while in Nakuru that a section of BBI proponents are doing their best to ensure that a NO versus YES teams is formed ahead of the referendum. Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa, who is a close friend to the DP has already said that he will lead a NO campaign against the BBI. Moses Kuria (Gatundu South) had also said he will join a NO team against the Bill, saying that it does not capture the issues affecting a common Kenyan. However, the DP appears to be drifting away from the NO campaign team and is instead pushing for more negotiations to ensure that their demands are met. Ruto said that a consensus agreement will lead to a win-win situation, hence avoiding division in the country in terms of supporting the report. The BBI secretariat said on Monday that it has so far collected 1.5 million signatures. The 1.5 million signatures include those collected through the online app. "This is a civic duty, not a political event. No citizen should be left behind," secretariat co-chair Junet Mohamed said. One million signatures of registered voters are required to back the draft constitutional amendment Bill.