Lack of free land has been cited as the main challenge encountered by the Nairobi Metropolitan Services in construction of 24 hospitals across informal settlements. NMS director-general Mohammed Badi early this week said there is barely any empty space in the informal settlements and that was a setback that derailed their work. Initially, the 24 hospitals, levels 2 and 3, were to be completed and commissioned this month. “Our target was to complete the 24 hospitals this month, but the main challenge was most of the slums in Nairobi are full. There is no empty space to build the hospitals,” Badi said. The NMS had to engage local and political leaders to acquire space to build hospitals. The major-general said some residents had to be relocated to police land to make room for the project. Badi noted that most of the existing hospitals and dispensaries in informal areas are accommodated either in a church or on school land. “The Sinai area in Embakasi, being an example, has got no single inch of space, yet it is heavily populated,” he said. The NMS resolved to initiate talks with the Ministry of Agriculture so a hospital in is built on National Cereals and Produce Board land in Sinai. However, having the challenges addressed and solved, the NMS is in the process of finalising the 24 hospitals. It is expected that the contractor will move on site at Sinai the first week of next month to commence works. According to the NMS boss, at least five hospitals are expected to be ready by the end of this week. “We hope by the end of this month we complete at least 14 of them and by end of January 2021 we will target to finish the rest,” Badi highlighted. During Jamhuri Day celebrations last Saturday in Nyayo Stadium, President Uhuru Kenyatta announced the Sh2 billion project will be completed early next year. “I note with satisfaction that the NMS is on course to deliver the 24 facilities by end of January 2021. The idea is to take health services as close to the people as is possible,” he said. Health workforce The NMS, through the Public Service Commission, last week advertised vacancies for various health personnel cadres to be recruited for the 24 hospitals. "After application, the board has embarked on interviewing the different cadres of nurses, doctors, clinical officers, with recruitment being done in January," Badi said. The shortlisting process is underway. On equipment, Badi said that they have completed the orders and it started to arrive last week. “Before Christmas, we shall have all equipment for 24 hospitals with us awaiting for completion of the facilities,” he said. With the commissioning of the 24 hospitals set for next year, the bed capacity will increase by 280 in the informal settlements. NMS director of health services Josephine Mbae said in November that 19 of the 24 health facilities would be built from scratch while the rest would be rehabilitated. “Ten out of the facilities to be built entirely will be level 2 hospitals and the rest will be level 3,” she said. Level-2 facilities are dispensaries run by clinical officers offering outpatient, VCT, tuberculosis, laboratory, antenatal and postnatal services, curative treatment and issuance of referral letters to other facilities. Level-3 facilities are health centres and are run by at least one doctor, clinical officers and nurses. Services offered include curative, laboratory, antenatal and postnatal, maternity in-patient services, dental, pharmacy, TB clinics, diabetes and hypertension clinics and issuance of referral letters to other facilities. Dr Mbae said the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority will be contracted to supply drugs to the facilities. “More drugs will be procured as required once the facilities are done,” she said. 