@Yobramos4 The Coast General Teaching and Referral Hospital in Mombasa has acquired a 10,000-litre oxygen tank to ensure a constant supply of the gas to patients, especially those with Covid-19. The tank, donated to the facility by Mombasa Cement, will be set up the end of the week. CGTRH boss Iqbal Khandwalla on Tuesday said patients with Covid-19 require high volumes of oxygen and the equipment will satisfy their needs. “Each patient requires, depending on severity, 30-60 litres of oxygen per minute for those with severe cases of Covid-19. For the mild cases, we might give them between 10-15 litres of oxygen per minute. So the volume of oxygen that is used is very high,” Khandwalla said. Mombasa Cement has indicated that it will be refilling the tank as needed. Khandwalla said the 10,000 litres of oxygen is consumed in about four days, depending on the number of patients who are on oxygen supply. It costs about Sh600,000. “This is a great boost towards the fight against Covid-19 because Mombasa Cement has not only donated the tank but also the liquid oxygen inside,” Khandwalla said. He spoke at the facility as he received another consignment of donations from Mombasa Cement, which is one of the major donors to the hospital. The CEO received 10 water dispensers, 10 electric kettles, 10 microwaves and 10 wheelchairs from Mombasa Cement chief executive Hasmukh Patel’s personal assistant Samir Baloo. Baloo said the donation is part of efforts to assist the Mombasa county government equip the CGTRH. “We will still be assisting the administration here so that the people of Mombasa and the Coast region get better services,” Baloo said. Khandwalla said Covid-19 patients at the facility have reduced; only 28 patients are currently admitted. “We have the capacity to admit but we don’t admit mild cases, which are referred to home-based care,” Khandwalla said. CGTRH chief nurse Elizabeth Kivuva said Mombasa Cement has been of great help to the hospital's efforts to offer quality services. She said the new donations of water dispensers, microwaves, electric kettles and wheelchairs will help make the lives of both patients and caregivers at the hospital more comfortable. Khadwalla said the wheelchairs will be used by patients in the casualty department while the rest of the donated items will help keep the healthcare workers comfortable, especially in the Covid-19 area. “You know the Covid area is very hot especially when they wear their suits. They sweat a lot and these are going to be very useful,” Khadwalla said.  (edited by o. owino)