Beds are empty, corridors silent. Guards man the gates of health facilities throughout Bomet county. The countrywide nurses and clinical officers' strike enters its eighth day on Monday. Longisa County Hospital outside Bomet is the main public referral hospital, also serving patients from Narok and Nyamira. Patients and medical workers stay away. Doctors can't work without the others and may join the strike on Monday. Many patients cannot afford private hospitals. More than 45 nurses at 215 health facilities say they will not return to work until their demands are met. They want PPEs, health insurance, risk allowances, back pay, promotions, job redesignation, a Health Services Commission, among other demands. Kenya National Union of Nurses secretary Vincent Rono of the Bomet branch told the Star that as long as they county does not meet their demands, they will not work. He said welfare issues were paramount and cannot be wished away."We do not mind what happens in our health facilities ...We only want and have always asked that our issues be addressed," Rono said. The union wants the county to promote 151 nurses and redesignate others in health centres and dispensaries. Nurses want a health risk allowance of Sh30,000 for staff and 44 others who have been on contract since 2017 on permanent and pensionable terms. Some staff engaged under the Universal Healthcare scheme must be paid dues that Rono said amounted to millions of shillings. For five years, nurses have been raising welfare issues. “These people [county government] have always taken us in circles with promises that never materialise. Enough is enough...We have had meetings that were not fruitful," the union leader said. County Health executive Joseph Sitonik did not answer calls seeking comment. County Medical Services chief officer Joyce Chebose said they are addressing issues pertaining to the county, others were being handled by the national government. The national government is focusing on allowances, the collective bargaining agreement and formation of a health services commission demanded by medical workers. She said the county is working with the county Public Service Board on promotions, redesignations and salaries (Edited by V. Graham)