Politicians Raila Odinga and Musalia Mudavadi on New Year's Eve praised the resilience of Kenyans struggling with the Covid-19 pandemic and a foundering economy in 2020. In their separate New Year messages, the two leaders asked Kenyans not to lose hope but remain optimistic of a better 2021. ODM leader Raila said Kenyans are never known to throw their hands up in surrender against challenges and the present situation should be no different. “The year 2020 was difficult for all. Let's look back with hope that better days are ahead. I urge all Kenyans to embrace the hope that even though we face historic challenges, we have the capacity, courage and determination to rise, fight back and overcome,”  the former Prime Minister said. Raila is extremely close to the government these days and it was ANC boss Mudavadi who tempered hope with stinging criticism of the government's failures. Covid-19, he said, did not cause Kenya's economic decay but triggered it. He also said the country was on the chopping block of bankruptcy.22.. Mudavadi has called on the government focus on reviving the economy and fighting graft in the New Year. The ANC boss said the many people government plans to tax have already lost jobs while those still employed need every coin to see them struggle to pay the high prices of basic goods and service. “While politicians have marked their 2021 diaries, most Kenyans are staring at a void after losing their livelihoods in 2020,” Mudavadi said. He called it regrettable the government has failed to meet the demands of striking doctors, nurses and clinical workers in the front lines fighting the Covid pandemic. He said it was regrettable that the government is unable to meet the demands of picketing health workers who are at the front line fighting  the Covid-19 pandemic. “A paralysed heath system is a national security threat. Government is inevitably abetting Covid-19's spread and infections,” he said. He said the year 2020 was one of locust invasions, floods and drought and a staggering economy  pushed into the abyss by Covid-19 . “It may sound insincere to send you the traditional Happy New Year's goodwill message against the backdrop of the hard times we live in. However, it is in time of gloom that the true character of a Kenyan is manifested,” Mudavadi said. Mudavadi regretted that many Kenyans lost their livelihoods in 2020. “Covid-19 did not cause our economic decay, but only accelerated it. Government went on a borrowing extravaganza. The more dangerous the debt exposure government ran into, the more borrowing it signed onto until the troubles we face today exploded,” he added. He said the country is staring at a Sh8.4 trillion debt against a ceiling of Sh9 trillion. “The country is on the chopping block of bankruptcy because we borrowed expensive commercial loans with high interest in a very short time. With corruption skimming its share, we invested in flashy projects without guaranteed immediate return. "Worse has come when loans investment is not yielding returns to repay them,"  he pointed out. He added that it is not easy to recount the personal anguish of Kenyans, without feeling guilty that as leaders, they did too little to halt and arrest the hurt. (Edited by V. Graham) 