MCAs continue to splurge billions of shillings on nonessentials such as travels and hospitality, with another huge sum splashed out on legal services and salaries. The latest reports by Auditor General Nancy Gathungu reveal that many county assemblies are grappling with stalled projects, mainly debating chambers, with skewed employment replicated in most of them. The assemblies make irregular contributions to the County Assemblies Forum (CAF) even as the huge chunk of cash end up in fuelling and maintaining a fleet of vehicles for the MCAs and their speakers. The MCAs have been put on the spot for their lavish spending despite the National Treasury’s efforts to cut cost in the wake of under-collection of revenue. The 2018-19 audit reports were recently tabled in the Senate by Deputy Majority leader Fatuma Dullo. An analysis of reports on five assemblies shows a similar trend where the MCAs and staff are fingered for profligate spending. In Embu, MCAs spent Sh14.35 million on hospitality, supplies and services—what the auditor terms avoidable expenditures. Of the amount set aside for hospitality, the assembly spent Sh2.30 million on hiring conference facilities for meetings outside the assembly precincts. “However, there was no justification why the meetings were held outside the county and that could, therefore, be avoided,” the report reads. The assembly paid a law firm Sh5.9 million without following the advocated remuneration amendment order 2014, which provides detailed guidelines on how legal fees should be charged. In addition, the cases had not been concluded in courts by close of the financial year, but the payment has been made in full. The auditor raised concerns at the possibility of a loss of Sh4.84 million at the county assembly that was advanced to MCAs and staff for domestic travel, allegedly to attend a conference. There were no supporting documents such as attendance schedules, invitation letters, work/bus tickets and/or back to office reports. The assembly allegedly contributed Sh2.30 million to the CAF, but there was no evidence to back the expenditure, triggering concerns the money could have been embezzled. In Nyeri, the assembly overshot its expenditure on travel and subsistence by Sh25.35 million but cleverly charged the excess expenditure to hospitality. “Had the miss-posted expenses been charged to the domestic travel and subsistence account, the total expenditure on the item would have increased to Sh190.35 million, resulting in over-expenditure of Sh25.35 against the approved budget for the year amounting to Sh165 million." The assembly paid out Sh38.86 million to MCAs and staff for attending various meetings in facilities located outside the county assembly premises. “The meetings could have been conveniently held at a lesser, or no, cost within the areas of county assembly designated for such meetings. Therefore, the expenditure totalling Sh38.86 reflects lack of prudent use of resources by management,” the document reads. Further, the construction of the county assembly gate and refurbishment of a hotel for use by MCAs at a total cost Sh10.67 million delayed inordinately despite the assembly making payments in full. The auditor fingered the assembly for noncompliance with ethnic diversity. It had 54 permanent employees, of whom 42 are from the dominant community in the county. “This was contrary to provisions of the County Government Act, 2012, which requires county governments to ensure that at least a third of the vacant posts at entry-level are filled by candidates who are not from the dominant community in the county,” it says. The construction of a mini chamber and a boundary wall around it at a total cost of Sh97.64 million at the Bomet county assembly are all behind schedule. “In the circumstances, therefore, the construction of the boundary wall is behind schedule and the likelihood of cost escalation is high. In addition, the benefits envisaged from its construction have not been realised." In Makueni, the county assembly’s expenditure on goods and services increased by Sh88.51 million (30 per cent). “The increase mainly occurred under fuel oil lubricants, other operating expenses, specialised materials and services, and utilities, supplies and services. “However, there was no significant change in the level of activity in comparison to the prior year for the assembly to incur the huge expenditure on the use of goods and services,” it adds.