Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria walked off in a huff from a funeral in Limuru on Monday after he was cut off the list of speakers at the service. Five MPs from both the Tangatanga and Kieleweke factions attended the service for Alice Ndirangu, the mother of Finance committee clerk Joseph Igogo. It was not the solemn event expected as Jubilee lawmakers clashed over the Building Bridges Initiative process. Kuria and MPs Peter Mwathi (Limuru), Kimani Ichung'wah (Kikuyu), Kanini Kega (Kieni),  Moses Kuria (Gatundu) and Mercy Gakuya (Kasarani) blamed each other for misleading residents on the proposals of the BBI report. Uriri MP Mark Nyamita of the ODM party was also present at the event held in Ngenia High School. Mwathi blamed politicians for taking advantage of the BBI process to attack one another, making it appear like a political duel when it was not. He said some politicians have alleged that President Uhuru Kenyatta has neglected the region and the country to concentrate on changing the Constitution. “Some of us are misleading people to an extent of lying to them that there is no work being done by President Uhuru Kenyatta’s government,” the MP, a BBI proponent, said. Mwathi said Uhuru had not put off any work as roads and railway were being constructed, markets and hospitals built as the government also fought to reduce Covid-19 infections. “We should be telling our people the benefits of the BBI or why some do not like it, but not politicising the whole process,” he said. “The countries which have changed their constitutions have had new challenges such as the one we are facing since none got 100 per cent backing,” he said. He did not specify which countries. But Ichung’wa, a close ally of Deputy President William Ruto, told mourners that this was not the right time to change the Constitution. He said the country needed to deal with the inflation caused by the coronavirus. AIPCK archdeacon Joseph Njenga was forced to cut the legislators' speeches to beat the time limits imposed by the Ministry of Health for such gatherings. Kuria realised he would not address the mourners and walked out in protest. Kega urged politicians insinuating that the government was broke to stop giving residents the wrong information. However, Kega said, Kiambu is among the counties that are resisting the BBI process, which is aimed at improving people's lives. “The document has some benefits to Central people. We shall have additional constituencies which will come with funding; our counties will also be funded well owing to the population since the document is in the spirit one man, one vote one shilling,” he said.  (edited by o. owino)