@alalmaurice ODM leader Raila Odinga took his BBI campaign to church on Sunday, urging worshippers to support proposed sweeping constitutional amendments. “BBI is aimed at bringing people together. It is the concrete solution to the problem of our people,” Raila said at ACK St Stephen's Cathedral in Kisumu. He made the remarks ahead of the International Anti-Corruption Day, saying churches should remain firm and not accept donations from those who loot public funds. Concerning BBI, the ODM boss said it would benefit Kenyans, adding the BBI train has "left the station", indicating a referendum was all but inevitable. “We urge all Kenyans to support the BBI report to unite Kenya,” the former Prime Minister said. Those who oppose a referendum should join the 'No' campaign, he said, calling critics' demands were unrealistic. Kenyans should be allowed to decide on the BBI at the ballot, President Uhuru Kenyatta's handshake partner said. Raila also opposed a multiple-choice referendum in which residents would vote separately issue by issue. Raila called that too confusing for voters, saying BBI was a yes-no package. Already, 5.2 million signatures collected are to be submitted to the IEBC for verification. Raila termed the signature collection a major success, signalling a very strong seal of approval. He said the current election system with six ballots has been a problem. The IEBC, he said, wants polls staggered so the elections of governors and senators are separated from those of the President and Deputy President, MPs and MCAs Concerning corruption, Raila said once again that churches should stand united against graft and not be involved in what is, in effect, laundering dirty money through donations. “Thieves should not be allowed to run to church with stolen money for donations. It has to be questioned and stopped,” the ODM leader said. He was accompanied by Kisumu Deputy Governor Mathews Owili, Seme MP James Nyikal and Woman Representative Rosa Buyu, Nyanza BBI coordinator Bob Madanji and Kisumu assembly Speaker Elisha Oraro. Corruption has massively derailed economic development, he said, adding that he and President Kenyatta had agreed to fight graft to help save Kenya. “Government is unable to fund some projects because money meant for them has been looted by a few individuals in power,” Raila added. He urged Kenyans to strictly adhere to health protocols to stop the spread of Covid-19. A multi-pronged approach is necessary for post-Covid recovery, the ODM leader said. “Covid-19 has devastated our economy. It has destroyed our industries, jobs and brought poverty amongst us and killed many people,” Raila said. (Edited by V. Graham) 