The timelines for the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to deliver a referendum and constituencies delimitation are very tight. The IEBC will have to ensure the referendum is free and fair and the boundaries review is conducted in readiness for the 2022 election. It will also have to ensure that the boundaries review to accommodate the extra 70 constituencies is done before August next year if the electoral units will apply in the 2022 General Election. The Constitution states that if delimitation is done less than 12 months to a General Election, then that would not apply in the subsequent poll. It is critical to note that Kenya is smarting from the devastating effects of the coronavirus pandemic, with many Kenyans losing jobs and a failing economy. This means that the country will have to borrow heavily from the international market to finance the referendum, boundaries review and 2022 General Election. With the goodwill the Building Bridges Initiative is enjoying from the international community, financing the events will not be a big task for President Uhuru Kenyatta. What, however, will be a major issue is whether the two principals are determined to have the results of the boundaries review apply in the 2022 polls. If that is their agenda, then it would put a lot of pressure on the IEBC to conduct the review within the next seven months. The fatigue that will come with managing a referendum and the boundaries review will obviously impact on the commission's preparedness for the 2022 polls. Past commissions have put a caveat on any radical reviews of the law being done a year to the succeeding general election. This means that any event, including the referendum and the boundaries review, will have to take place latest by July 2021. Beyond that, the IEBC might not guarantee a free and fair 2022 election because of fatigue and pressure. It is my opinion that the twin issues–referendum and boundaries review–be concluded in time to allow the IEBC to concentrate on planning for the 2022 General Election. The political and governance analyst spoke to the Star