Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi was on Wednesday grilled for two hours by Ethics and Anti-corruption Commission detectives over allegations he provided false information during 2017 polls. Maangi spent the better part of the morning responding to claims that he falsified information provided in his self-declaration forms submitted to the EACC in the last polls. He said the allegations emanated from a traffic violation while he lived in the United States several years back. “I do not deny it. I was arrested in the US for what they call a DUI-driving under the influence. I was not convicted and jailed for a period of six months or more,” he said. Maangi was accompanied by his lawyers and South Mugirango MP Silvanus Osoro when he appeared at the Integrity Centre, the EACC headquarters in Nairobi. If found guilty, the deputy governor would be in breach of the Public Officers and Ethics Act upon which he can be removed from office. The deputy governor can also face up to three years in jail for falsifying information in official documents he declared to the EACC. However, Maangi said it is shocking that a traffic offence in the US had become a matter that the EACC wants to delve into. But EACC spokesman Yassin Amaro told the Star that the allegations facing Maangi touch on his integrity and are very serious if confirmed. “He will lack the integrity to hold public office as he would be in breach of the Ethics Act and as such that would be enough to make his stay in office untenable,” he said. The deputy governor first appeared before the EACC on November 30 but was recalled to respond to inconsistencies in his initial statements. Under the Ethics law, a person who has submitted a declaration to a Commission shall provide, without undue delay, any clarification requested by the Commission if the request is in writing any time. On Wednesday, Maangi defended his character saying his political opponents are responsible for his 'persecution', although he did not provide any evidence to support his allegations. (edited by o. owino)