The Nyeri county assembly was the first to go digital. Leaders say it's the the only assembly that never closed at any point due to Covid-19 - because it went digital early. The county has been using teleconferencing facilities installed after the outbreak of Covid-19 to conduct some of its business. Assembly proceedings are streamed live. The facility has enabled the assembly to provide teleconferencing services for members and staff. Plenary deliberations are carried out remotely. Committee sessions also are digital. The teleconferencing facility was officially launched by ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru on Thursday. The county also launched its E-newsletter, Nyota ya Nyeri, and hoisted the county flag for the first time since devolution. The teleconferencing facility was donated by Huawei through the ICT ministry. Mucheru said the assembly was the first to go digital, saying that's why it didn't close down during the pandemic. “Nyeri demonstrated to the country and to the world the country is ahead and can use technology to transform the way of doing things during this time of Covid-19,” Mucheru said. He urged other assemblies to emulate Nyeri. The monthly E-newsletter enables the public to follow county assembly business online. Speaker John Kaguchia said the newsletter will be a bridge between the assembly and members of the public who are vital in shaping the assembly's direction. “Monthly publications will feature assembly business, the work of MCAs and staff, public participation, corporate social responsibility activities, assembly events and forums,” Kaguchia said. Governor Mutahi Kahiga described the teleconferencing facility as a game changer during the Covid-19 pandemic. Nyeri town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu said the county has created a legacy after efforts to have a county flag for the last six years failed because of differences of opinion. He said the teleconferencing facility and technology in general have made life easier. MCAs can efficiently make laws and politick at the same time as the public can watch them in action. “Since we got this facility from the CS, most of us have been participating in debates while at home and others wherever they are and we have been able to contain the coronavirus,” Majority leader James Kanyugo said (Edited by V. Graham)