 The Kenya Union of Journalists has threatened work boycott at national broadcaster KBC to demand a better medical scheme for employees. KUJ said employees the scheme offered to workers was way below the amount deducted from their salaries. KUJ secretary-general Eric Oduor gave the KBC management up to Monday January 4 to address the matter or they call a strike. “We demand that the issues raised by staff be addressed by close of business on January 4, 2021, failure to which we shall have no other option but to declare the withdrawal of services until such a time when KBC will take health matters seriously,” Oduor said in a statement. The union also wants Director of Criminal Investigations and Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) to probe circumstances under which an inferior medical cover was procured. KUJ is demanding administrative action be taken against managers at the national broadcaster who signed the contract without considering the benefits to the employees. “KBC management should account for the 10 per cent medical contribution for each individual staff who contributes five per cent of basic salary to the medical scheme,” Oduor said. He further called for procurement of an alternative scheme that matches the employee’s contributions. Last week, the Kenya Broadcasting Corporation instituted a review committee to scrutinise the controversial medical scheme after the union raised concerns. “The review committee has indeed vindicated the Kenya Union of Journalists  which had raised concerns over a pitiable scheme the public broadcaster had signed despite colossal amounts of money it collects from staff to finance the scheme,” Oduor said. He added: “Based on the recommendations of the committee, we demand that KBC terminates the contract, and immediately begins a fresh process that will ensure staff are given a better scheme.” The union also warned the management against intimidating employees. Oduor cited a recent internal memo to staff which he noted amounts to intimidation.  