Embattled Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko is set to submit his rebuttal on Tuesday as his accusers file their evidence. Sonko will face off with MCAs before the Senate plenary starting 9am on Wednesday in a two-day session. The session will end with a decision on Thursday evening on whether the governor gets impeached or not. Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka told the Star on Monday he would gazette Wednesday and Thursday for the special sitting. Senators will participate both physically and virtually. Sonko’s lead lawyer Harrison Kinyanjui and head of communications Elkana Jacob said they were rushing against time to beat the 4pm Tuesday deadline for the submission of the documents. “Our lawyers will submit the evidence because everything is ready,” assembly Majority leader Abdi Guyo said. The sitting comes amid intense behind-the-scenes lobbying in which senators have been divided down the middle. A section of lawmakers working with a Jubilee politician and the governor’s allies, have been meeting and working on a plan to save Sonko. “The same strategy we used to defeat the committee route is the same strategy we are going to employ to defeat this motion,” a senator familiar with the intriguing and intricate lobbying told the Star. Last week, Senate Majority leader Samuel Poghisio declined to give a notice of motion to debate the formation of an 11-member committee to investigate the charges against the governor. The Star established that the move was a result of the work of the governor’s sympathisers, who successfully fought to defeat the formation of the committee which they claimed could have worked against the county chief. During Wednesday's session, according to the schedule of events, the two parties will be accorded 30 minutes each for opening speeches. The MCAs, through their lawyers, will take the stand to present their case. On Thursday, Sonko, through his legal representatives – Kinyanjui, George Kithi and Cecil Miller – will take four hours in the morning to discount the evidence fronted against the governor. The senators will then hold a meeting in camera to deliberate on the submissions before they resume to take a vote that will eventually decide whether Sonko will continue to serve as governor or if he will lose his job. "Each party will have their day," Senate Minority chief whip Mutula Kilonzo Jr said. If at least 24 of the 47 elected senators or, in their absence, their representatives (nominated) vote to uphold any of the four charges against the governor, he shall stand impeached. The MCAs are accusing Sonko of four broad allegations of gross violation of the Constitution or any other law, abuse of office, gross misconduct and crimes under national law. The MCAs accuse Sonko of presiding over ‘massive loss and theft’ of public funds amounting to Sh204.2 billion, bloating the county’s debt and crippling the operations of the Nairobi Metropolitan Services (NMS). “The governor’s continued willful refusal to execute the statutory warrants essential to the release of funds from the CRF, which has grounded the provision of services of not only the county executive but of the NMS and its exercise of the transferred functions,” the charges read He is also accused of persistently harassing, intimidating and molesting county officers and using City Hall cash to fly his daughter to the County First Lady’s Conference in New York, USA. These actions, the ward representatives argued, amount to abuse of office. “He has been blackmailing his county executive committee members and chief officers with one-year contracts, whose renewal he has undertaken arbitrarily, leaving the officers jittery about their employment and creating a climate of fear, uncertainty and despondence,” the charges read.