Mathare United head coach Salim Ali says he is busy preparing for the new season even as the club's future in the top-tier remains shrouded in mystery. The Slum Boys are among the four teams currently locked up in a tussle with Football Kenya Federation over broadcast rights deal with StarTimes. Mathare, Gor Mahia, Ulinzi Stars and Zoo Kericho have all refused to endorse the deal citing illegalities in some clauses although the champions and the soldiers are pencilled for a clash at Moi Stadium, Kasarani this weekend. Salim asserts he is burning to make amends to last season's lackadaisical performance which was further complicated by the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, eventually bringing competition to a premature end. "We were targeting a top-three finish and I'm sure if the league had not been cancelled, we would have achieved that objective," says Salim. However, he says it would be quite difficult for him to set targets for the 2020/21 season until he observes the quality of his playing unit in a competitive situation. "Honestly, it would be totally difficult to talk about my objectives since I still don't know the ability of my players," says Salim. "We started our training sessions late. We are just back and trying to catch up with the preseason." The side was actively involved in the just concluded transfer window period where they brought in Eugene Wethuli from National Super League side Nairobi Stima, Cersidy Okeyo (Sofapaka), Danson Kago (Posta Rangers), David 'Cheche' Ochieng ( Al Ansar, Saudi Arabia) and Moses Mburu (AFC Leopards). However, centre-back Andrew Juma joined champions Gor Mahia while left-back David Owino, a natural left-footer, found a new home at KCB. Mathare who have been plagued by perennial financial crisis, got a reprieve last week after Italian firm Triple5Bet came to their rescue with a whopping Sh20 million sponsorship deal. Speaking at the unveiling ceremony, club chairman Bob Munro promised that the funds would reflect in the team's performance when they embark on the new campaign.