The Kisumu government has directed owners of structures along the Kisumu-Kakamega road and residential area to vacate within seven days. The county is demolishing more illegal structures in the city and also recovering grabbed or illegally acquired lands. The order was issued in a notice on December 21, by acting city manager Abala Wanga. Wanga ordered that containers be removed immediately or they will be demolished. “The county government shall move and remove on its own, such structures without further reference to the owners and at their own risks as to cost incidental thereto,” he said. Wanga said the demolitions will pave way for the beautification of the city and building of the walkways as Kisumu is set to host 2021 Africities summit scheduled for November 16 to 20. On Monday, Hashi gas depot opposite Kicomi was razed by the county to repossess the stolen land. A team of city staffers headed by Inspectorate director Samuel Orimba supervised the demolition. Some of the Hashi gas depot staff said the land belongs to them. “We have a court order stopping the exercise,” a staffer who declined to be named said. The staffer questioned why the construction of the perimeter wall was approved by the former municipal in 1997 if the land belongs to the county government. But the city manager said they have not been served with any court order to stop the demolition. The demolition came barely a day after Wanga on Sunday led a team of city officials to tour various grabbed properties targeted for repossession. He was accompanied by city engineer Kevin Ajul, planner Stephen Sule, head of environment Bernard Ojwang and Orimba. Wanga said the city has identified 52 parcels of land, which were either grabbed or illegally acquired by individuals. “The grabbers include former powerful politicians, ministers who colluded with former councillors and former municipal staff to allocate their homes, lands and private developers who were irregularly awarded huge chunks of public land‚” he said. In its efforts to reclaim stolen lands, a building belonging to a former Kisumu lawmaker that hosts club Havanas has been demolished. The city manager said some lands were grabbed and illegally acquired in the 1970s, 1980s and in 1998. All will be taken back. So far, the county has reclaimed one public land parcel which had been grabbed by a developer. He cautioned those who had grabbed the county's properties to surrender them before forcible repossession. These include parking lots, playgrounds, recreational parks and city houses. Wanga said they are going to start with influential people who have grabbed public property in the city and built houses on them. “We have compiled a list of grabbed properties, with repossession in progress,” Wanga said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris