The National Treasury has been urged to ensure timely disbursement of funds to counties so the devolved governments can smoothly run their operations. The call was made by Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga who said counties have faced serious challenges owing to delayed disbursement of funds. He said Nyeri was yet to receive three months' allocation amounting to about Sh1.5 billion. The governor said the county also experienced a shortfall in local revenue collection with only Sh650 million out of the targeted Sh1 billion raised. He attributed the failure to the Covid-19 pandemic. “These are some of the challenges that we have had to deal with. When the Treasury holds onto such huge funds, it means our employees will go without salaries, hospitals will run dry, will have no drugs and generally, the counties will grind to a halt,” Kahiga said. He spoke on Friday when he signed the first supplementary budget of the 2020/21 financial year amounting to Sh9 billion. He asked county departments to do more to ensure revenue targets are met. The budget is Nyeri's biggest ever since the onset of devolution. Some Sh5.8 billion has been set aside for recurrent expenditure and Sh3.2 billion for development. Kahiga said the budget was big as it included the unspent 2019/20 financial year bank balances of Sh879 million. The money was mainly conditional grants and donor funding. “There was also a challenge in remission of funds and as we closed the year. A lot of our money that was supposed to have been spent in the previous year was held by the Treasury and so those are the figures that will be showing and giving us that kind of a very big budget,” he said. From the current expenditure, Sh3.8 billion will be spent on salaries. By the end of the year 2019/20, the county had a pending bill of Sh417 million which has been included in the budget. Some Sh758 million was allocated for specific projects in wards with Sh278 million for projects identified in the 2019-20 financial year. The Health department got the biggest allocation of Sh2.98 billion. “We have continued to prioritise health services to ensure our people are healthy. If you look at our figures last year, we were at Sh2.8 billion and that means we have now increased by Sh100 million,” Kahiga said. MCAs led by deputy speaker Samuel Kariuki, Majority leader James Kanyugo and the chairperson of the assembly’s Budget and Appropriations committee Gibson Wahinya were present. 