@robertomollo3 The national government is undertaking three flagship water projects at a cost of Sh2.576 billion in three constituencies in Homa Bay. They are Sh1.2 billion Homa Bay Cluster Water Supply in Homa Bay Town constituency, Sh703 million Oyugis project in Kasipul constituency and Sh673 million Kendu Bay project in Karachuonyo constituency. More than 213,000 residents are expected to benefit once they are completed. In Homa Bay Town, two projects involve pumping and treating water from Lake Victoria and supplying it. The other component involves sinking boreholes at Rodi Primary School and Rodi Kopany market and supplying it to the market and surrounding villages. The water will be pumped using solar energy. At least 80,000 people will benefit from. In Kasipul, the Oyugis water project will be pumped using gravitational force from a tributary of River Awach. The water will be treated and distributed in Oyugis town and surrounding villages.  More than 68,000 people will benefit. In Karachuony, the Kendu Bay project involves pumping water from River Awach to Kendu Bay town and surrounding villages using the force of gravity. More than 65,000 people will benefit. The projects are implemented through Lake Victoria South Water Works Development Agency (LVSWWDA). Speaking when he toured the projects on Friday, Water, Irrigation and Sanitation  PS Joseph Irungu and agency chairman Dan Omino said the projects are expected to be ready before the end of next year. Also present were Governor Cyprian Awiti, Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata and county secretary Isaiah Ogwe. The projects are aimed at increasing water supply coverage. Irungu said they had done away with some obstacles that impeded implantation. The projects were started early last year. “The government has prioritised the projects because they are flagship projects. We are going to ensure they are completed before the end of next year,” Irungu said. The PS said proper water supply and sewerage system is key to economic development and the health of the people. “Let LVSWWDA start planning on how connectivity will be done to enable residents to get water,” he added. Awiti said the projects will help them reduce water shortage in the county by a big percentage. He underscored the significance of cooperation between the national government and his administration. “The good cooperation between Homa Bay and the national government has enhanced the implementation of projects. We will continue working together to enable us to achieve the desired development goals,” he said. Kasipul MP Ong’ondo Were said the Oyugis project will also create jobs to his constituents. “The project will address the issue of water borne infections. It will transform lives,” he said.