IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati has the right to determine how much the Building Bridges Initiative signature verification exercise will cost, an MP has said. Nambale MP John Bunyasi (ANC) said on Sunday that politicians should not interfere with the signature verification exercise since the IEBC is an independent agency. The MP said politicians have a habit of interfering with the operations of independent commissions. This, he said, is not healthy for the country. “Chebukati has the right to determine what needs to be done in accordance with internal regulations of the IEBC and the law,” Bunyasi said as he presided over a fundraiser at Buyofu in his constituency. “Nobody, even the head of state under the law, can guide him or instruct him on what to do. That is a matter that as Kenyans we are still very concerned [about].” The MP, who seemed to direct the sentiments to ODM leader Raila Odinga, said Chebukati needed to be given time to plan ahead of the BBI signature verification. The MP spoke two days after the National Treasury disbursed Sh93 million to the IEBC to facilitate the signature verification drive, setting the stage for a referendum next year. The money will be spent on hiring and training clerks who will verify the signatures in the exercise that will take 85 days. The IEBC had initially requested for Sh241 million for the exercise. Raila recently dismissed the IEBC’s request for more money to verify BBI signatures, saying officials at the commission have continued to draw huge salaries despite 'doing nothing' since the last general election. “The problem with this country is trusting wrong people with public office,” the ODM leader said while attending the burial of Barnabas Ariga, a former engineer at the Ministry of Roads. The former Lang'ata MP said the IEBC should be overhauled and a new team constituted as the country prepares for 2022 polls. But Bunyasi said, “When you begin to condemn a referee when you are a player when the game begins, do you think that the referee will be neutral? There is a likelihood that the referee in such a scenario will be biased and will most likely favour the side that is condemning him.” “Let us allow Chebukati to guide this process so that it is conducted professionally and legally. Let us stop being angry at a time when we need sobriety.” The BBI secretariat has handed over four million signatures to the IEBC, saying they had completed an internal verification of the names collected in support of the push for the 2010 Constitution amendment. Raila said IEBC’s demand for more than Sh200 million was unacceptable.  