Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo has disbursed Sh7.4 million bursaries to Form 4 students. Koyoo on Friday said 973 bright KCSE candidates from day and boarding schools benefitted. He said education remains his priority area and hopes it will be a good legacy when he retires from active politics. "Under my tenure, all students who are eager to learn and achieve their dreams will not be left alone," Koyoo said, adding that through the sponsorships, the constituency will produce top lawyers, doctors, engineers and other professionals. Koyoo spoke in Chemelil where he issued cheques. The bursary committee received 5,000 applications. The beneficiaries were from Miwani, Chemelil, Masogo-Nyang’oma, Ombeyi and Muhoroni-Koru wards. They also included students living with disabilities. Some 468 day-school learners shared Sh2.4 million, with 505 of their boarding counterparts getting Sh5 million. “The bursaries we're disbursing today follows the successful application by various needy but bright students across the constituency,” the lawmaker said. He emphasised his commitment through the bursary programme to ensuring no needy student drops out of school. Koyoo announced that they will disburse bursaries to Form 1, 2 and 3 students in March and April next year. He urged parents and students to apply for the cash, assuring that deserving cases will benefit after a thorough evaluation. He pledged that university students who excel will be supported. This year, the constituency allocated Sh38.2 million for bursaries of which Sh25.2 million had been disbursed since January. In April, Koyoo disbursed Sh10.2 million bursaries to 1,106 college and university students. The fund is disbursed in five categories—national schools, special-course universities, vulnerable students, college and university and secondary schools. “We want parents with needy cases to ensure applications reach the CDF office in Chemelil when they are publicised,” Koyoo said. Education sector players, including principals and parents, lauded the bursary programme for supporting many students.