Nacada and Coast regional administrators have issued a warning against selling of illicit brews during December holiday. According to an inspection report by the National Authority for Campaign against Alcohol and Drug Abuse by its coast regional office, home delivery of alcohol has become the new business. The inspection was done to ensure wine and spirit outlets comply with the law and regulations relating to sale and consumption of alcohol to protect the health and well-being of Kenyans. Speaking during an inter-agency committee meeting in Mombasa, Kwale county commissioner Ngumo Karuku said a team will be formed to wipe out the sale and delivery of drugs in the Coast region. “We are issuing a warning to all Kenyans who have turned their homes into drinking dens and market place for drugs and alcohol that there will be a patrol everywhere, especially during this festive period, to inspect the activities going on,” Ngumo said. He urged residents to report any homes selling alcohol and drugs by using Nacada's free toll number 1192. He said due to the surging Covid-19 infections in the region, all house parties are banned. Nacada Coast regional manager George Karissa said they have noted a rise in the purchase of alcohol in supermarkets and wine and spirit outlets because of closure of bars. Karissa said Kilifi county is leading in the consumption of alcohol with 21.5 per cent followed by Mombasa with 14.6 per cent. He said there is need of implementing regulations to ensure all alcohol outlets operate under the guidelines set by the Ministry of Health and as per the National Alcohol Control Act. Nacada chief executive Victor Okioma said people should not abuse drugs and instead be their own brother’s keeper. "People need to be sensitised on the use of alcohol and drugs. Those drinking infront of their children should know that young people exposed to drugs suffer more damage than adults," Okioma said. He urged the Kenyans to avoid any alcohol that has not been approved by Kenya Bureau of Statistics. 