Mental fortitude and a change in tactical strategy will be key if Kenya Simbas are to qualify for the 2023 World Cup in France. The draw for the global event was contacted on Monday in Paris and should Kenya qualify, they will face three-time champions New Zealand, hosts France and Italy. If the Simbas lose out on the automatic continental ticket and win the repechage, they will land in Pool C, where they face two-time champions Australia, Wales, Fiji and a qualifier from Europe Namibia have been Africa's representatives at the World Cup alongside South Africa for the past six editions and Odera wants to break the jinx and ensure Simbas qualify for the first time. Simbas' coach Paul Odera said the current squad has the talent but has deficiencies in mental strength. "This coupled with technical skills in both attack and defence will have to improve especially during the World Cup qualifiers slated for either next year or 2022," he noted. He noted: “Mentally we have to improve when we come up against Namibia. We tend to fear them whenever we meet. The message is to go there and play hard and come out victorious,” Odera said. On the technical aspect, Odera admitted that there has to be massive improvements in both defence and attack. “ When I look at our last game against Namibia in attack, we were just running straight into them and they kept knocking us backwards. So we have to variate our play and put the attacker into space and play at a fast tempo if we are to beat them,” noted Odera. In defence, the team will have to improve its one-on-one tackles and improve their strength and conditioning if they harbour any hopes of competing at the big stage. The Simbas missed out on last year's World Cup in Japan after losing all three matches in the repechage in France in 2018, going down to Germany (43-6), Hong Kong (42-17) and Canada (65-19). The Simbas came very close to qualification for the 2015 edition in the United Kingdom but lost their final pool match to Zimbabwe 27-10 having beaten Madagascar 35-5 and Namibia 29-22.