Kenya Breweries Limited on Thursday unveiled the 2nd phase of the “Dandia Bonus Na KaQuarter” National Consumer Promotion. The promotion is aimed at rewarding consumers of the mainstream spirits category. KBL in a statement said the 12-week promotion will have a range of participating brands including; Kenya Cane, Captain Morgan Gold, Chrome Vodka, Orijin, Kane Extra, V&A & Triple Ace. The recently launched innovations, Chrome Gin, Dowells Whiskey and Red Star Vodka have also been incorporated to the campaign. "The promotion seeks to reward consumers across the country with daily, weekly and monthly cash prizes which we hope will have significant impact to their livelihoods and revive their businesses especially during these tough economic times," Head of Spirits Flavia Othim said. "We are committed to continue offering brands with a strong value proposition as part of our efforts to expand our business in the Kenyan market and give value to our consumers." Othim said the  ‘Dandia Bonus Na KaQuarter’ promotion will target customers from off-trade outlets including supermarkets, select convenience stores at petrol stations, wines and spirits and select online shops. Consumers stand a chance of winning an array of prizes including daily cash and airtime, weekly cash prizes of Sh20,000 and Sh50,000 and monthly cash prizes of Sh200,000 and Sh500,000. The promotion will also see one lucky winner walk away with the grand prize of  Sh1 Million. To participate, consumers will be required to purchase a 250ml pack of any one of the participating brands, scratch the panel on the front of the pack to reveal a seven-digit alphanumeric code, then text the code to 29884. The ‘Dandia Na KaQuarter’ consumer promotion follows another successful KBL ‘Shangilia Hustle ya Kenya’ promotion by Kenya Cane where 20 lucky consumers won KES. 100,000 worth of merchandise to support their hustle over a 12-week period. Thereby affirming the company’s commitment to continue engaging and rewarding its customers.