Two MPs from Kakamega county have differed over counties' capacity to manage the health docket. Lugari MP Ayub Savula said that level 4 and 5 hospitals should be reverted to the national government and counties left to manage dispensaries. "Counties lack the capacity to run level 4 hospitals, leaving Kenyans to suffer. Former Matungu MP Justus Murunga died from lack of oxygen. This tells you what's going on in our hospitals,” he said. Savula said most county governments were unable to ensure a steady supply of pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical consumables. But his Navakholo counterpart Emmanuel Wangwe said the health docket had improved since it was devolved. He said all counties need is to strengthen their capacities to improve health services. "If you look at the state of health in the country, there is an improvement. Initially, we only had Kenyatta National Hospital and later Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret," he said on the phone on Tuesday. "Today, you will see that each county has put up more facilities than before and just needs to be made better.” He also faulted the nurses and clinicians strike, saying they were demanding "too much". Wangwe said health workers should give dialogue a chance because the country is going through hard times. “Even when there was Linda Nchi operation in Somalia, Kenyan soldiers died because of sacrificing for the country. Medics should know that if you are at war, you don’t expect to stay comfortable. That amounts to abandoning the war,” he said. But Savula said the health workers strike should have been addressed by the Council of Governors, the Salaries and Remuneration Commission and the Treasury. He said that threats by some counties to engage alternative staff on contact to replace the striking staff would not solve the problem. “Hiring staff on contract while those on permanent and pensionable terms are suffering is not a solution. Governors should engage the striking medics before it is too late because Kenyans are suffering, yet they are entitled to quality health services by the government under the Constitution,” Savula said. Edited by A.N