A 250-acre national bamboo demonstration site will be established in Kaptagat Forest to aid reforestation. It will produce seedlings to be planted in riverine and catchment areas, as well as mudslide-prone areas in Nandi, Uasin Gishu, Trans Nzoia and Elgeyo Marakwet counties. Fast-growing bamboo has an extensive root system that holds soil together and can prevent mudslides. The Kenya Forest Service has signed a collaboration agreement with the Kenya Water Towers Agency to adopt 250 acres in Kaptagat Forest for the bamboo site. Kiptoo said master plans have been developed for restoration of Cherangany and Elgeyo Hills water towers, which will soon be gazetted. After they are approved by the Cabinet, Kenya can seek funding for forest restoration and rehabilitation from the EU, the UK and others. "It will go a long way in ensuring perennial landslides along the escarpment are stopped," Kiptoo said. He spoke over the weekend at Kaptagat DEB Primary School where he attended the signing of the MoU between KFS and KWTA. Collaboration agreements were also signed by the World Wildlife Fund for Nature, the National Environment Trust Fund and five community forest associations in communities adjacent to Kaptagat Forest ecosystem. The accords cover protection and maintenance of planted forest sites, as well as CFA capacity building. They will provide jobs to 60 unemployed youths who will receive a stipend from WWF. The forest adoption framework was signed between the chief conservator of forests Julius Kamau and acting KWTA director-general Julius Tanui. The signing ceremonies were witnessed by Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos, Uasin Gishu Environment executive Mary Njogu and national government administration officers from the two counties. The PS hinted that residents living on dangerous slopes along the Elgeyo Escarpment will be relocated to safer areas by the government once the Cabinet decides. “However all those who have crossed the forest spacer lines will be evicted," he said. More than 3,000 membership CFAs have received donations from the Environment ministry and Netfund to foster agroforestry and establish tree nurseries. PS Kiptoo said 400 acres of Kaptagat forest have been replanted since 2017. (Edited by V. Graham) 