Investigations into cyber fraud claims by MCAs allied to Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko have begun, the Star has learnt. This comes as Sonko’s defense lawyers expressed confidence they will win the case they filed against the impeachment process last Thursday. MCAs allied to Sonko, led by nominated MCA Millicent Okatch, said the email accounts of 21 of them were hacked into and their credentials used to log them in and vote. They filed a report and recorded statements at the Kwale police station under OB 55/3/12/2020. However, the probe into the cybercrime claims may take a bit longer to conclude. Coast DCI boss Washinton Njiru, however, said cases of such nature are always complicated. “They require time and effort, with attention to detail,” said Njiru on phone. He said usually, impersonation claims, especially where emails are involved, require a high level of expertise. However, he said the DCI has such experts and expressed confidence they will crack the case and the truth will soon be known. “We have our experts,” said Njiru. Sonko’s lead counsel Harrison Kinyanjui said the constitutional threshold to remove Sonko as the governor has not been made. He likened the case to that of Kirinyaga’s Anne Waiguru. “The process of electing a governor is constitutionally set. You must meet the electoral threshold for you to be confirmed as the governor of the county,” he explained. “You cannot, by a simple number of people, then purport to be a governor of a county. By implication, you cannot simplify the removal of a governor, who having been elected through such a rigorous process, through a simplified process,” said Kinyanjui on phone. He said there are a number of questions marks and illegalities that marked Thursday’s impeachment process at the Nairobi City County Assembly. Kinyanjui and his battery of other counsels will look to exploit illegalities ad question marks so as to ensure his client gets justice. He said those who elected Sonko must equally be given an opportunity, through public participation, to determine whether they want him removed or not. He noted, therefore, that each of the ward representatives is bound by implication to go around the ward asking the people to participate. “The question is, when was this done, how was it done ad where is the proof it was done,” said Kinyanjui. “There is nowhere the governor is going,” he said. An MCA, who was in Kwale in solidarity with Sonko, and who sought anonymity, said they are being threatened and trailed by unknown people.