Baringo County Health Chief Officer Dr. Gideon Toromo has threatened to sue an MCA for calling him mad. While dismissing claims that he is suffering from mental illness, Toromo said County Assembly Chief Whip Reuben Chepsongol is using his political power to influence matters of health at the county. Toromo on Friday accused the MCA for inciting other health staff at the county to tarnish his name for always telling the truth. I am not happy with such words being uttered by the MCA. I am not mad and have never been diagnosed as such. As a result, my lawyers are under instructions to file court proceedings," he said. He added, "Currently I'm serving my normal duty leave, but not a sick leave as some people say, I will get back to my work soon". His sentiments came after County Assembly Chief Whip Reuben Chepsongol urged Governor Stanley Kiptis to urgently replace him while on leave. Chepsongol, who doubles up as Bartabwa MCA said Toromo suffers from an untenable serious mental disorder, therefore, doesn’t deserve to serve in his current position. “He is used to harassing, scaring and threatening health staff including everyone working under him, so it is high time he should be replaced immediately with a sober mind,” he said. Addressing media in his office on Friday, Chepsongol said Toromo is currently out of the office on a 30 day-sick leave until January. “Governor Kiptis should now utilise the opportunity to get someone quickly to replace him in an acting capacity,” he said. Toromo was arraigned before Kabarnet law court on Thursday and charged with drawing a sword and threatening to kill the county payroll manager Francis Ayabei over alleged pending salary debt. But in his reaction, he said that incident does not imply that he has a mental disorder. I am not a killer. I am a doctor trained to treat and not kill. These allegations are nothing but politically instigated," he said. Toromo said the incident happened because the fiance guy has been paying him half of what he is supposed to earn. "I am human and I was angry on that day. For over two months I have been earning Sh200,000 instead of Sh400,000," he said. He added, "I went to his office to demand what rightfully belongs to me but instead the said person broke the window and fled claiming I had threatened to kill him". Toromo said he has served at the county because the residents made a public demand that he be retained due to his medical expertise. "I am a medical doctor with a Bachelor's degree from the University of Nairobi. I hold a Masters in Tropical Medicine from a University in German. I hold a Masters and a PhD in Public Health, how can then one claim that I am desperate to work at Baringo County?" he posed. He accused the governor of running down the health sector. "I don't understand why Governor Kiptis hates knowledgeable doctors so much until he demotes all of them,” Toromo said. Toromo said the governor was to blame for employing people who do not have an understanding of health matters. The governor in his defense said, "Toromo really suffers from mental illness and he is strictly under medication and I have already put him on sick leave". He called upon members of the public to ignore the allegations that the county health sector is being mismanaged saying his administration does everything possible to ensure people get good services. Chepsongol further urged Governor Kiptis to recall back over 100 interns whose contracts ended in January to replace the health workers on strike. “We are tired of burying our innocent people daily because of poor health services especially in our main county referral hospital-Kabarnet,” Chepsongol said. The situation is worsened by the ongoing countrywide health workers strike demanding promotions, confirmation and salary increment. He said due to the strike, patients were hardly attended to in the wards and the maternity wing instead they were being referred to the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital (MTRH)-Eldoret. The most affected facilities are Marigat, Kabartonjo, Mogotio, Chemolingot and Eldama-Ravine Sub-county hospitals. "The MCA, therefore, calls upon Governor Kiptis to urgently recall back the interns whose one-year contracts ended in January, “In order to render services and save the lives of people,” Chepsongol said. Unfortunately upon the end of their term, the interns hired under Universal Health Care (UHC) program were replaced immediately. Their plight to get retained back and employed in permanent terms was futile even after holding protests three times. However, on Tuesday,  governor Kiptis urged the striking health workers to get back to duty assuring to effect their promotions and confirm them.