President Uhuru Kenyatta has directed Chiefs and their assistants to ensure all school children report back to school next month. Speaking during this year’s Jamhuri Day celebrations, Uhuru said no child should be out of school on January 4, 2021, when schools reopen following a nine-month break due to the Coronavirus pandemic. The President also appealed to parents to facilitate their children for the next year’s reopening of schools. The head of state assured that the safety of learners will be a top priority when the children will be trooping back to school in January. The country has been experiencing a spike on the Covid-19 infections, something that led to the suspension of a phased reopening. “That the Ministry of Interior and Co-ordination of National Government shall, through all Chiefs and Assistant Chiefs, account for all children within the jurisdiction of those officers and also ensure that all children report back to school in January 2021,” the President directed. “The Ministry of Education, in consultation with the Ministry of Health, has developed sector-specific protocols and guidelines to facilitate the re-opening of all learning institutions.” The Education ministry was also directed to receive reports from all primary and secondary schools in Kenya - regardless of the system of education they deliver - on the identity and details of any child or children who have not reported back to school. “That the Ministry of Education shall re-issue and publicize the Education Policy on School Re-Entry; so as to facilitate the re-admission of all those who may not be able to report back due to pregnancies,” Uhuru said. Last week, the National Council Churches of Kenya (NCCK) called on the government to review the planned re-opening of all schools citing the recent surge of Covid-19 cases in the country. NCCK General Secretary Canon Chris Kinyanjui cautioned the situation risks the lives of teachers, students and parents. “We propose that the decision that all learners will resume in-school learning on January 5, 2021, be reviewed and proper measures be put in place to avoid a surge in new infections,” Kinyanjui said last week.