Students and university leaders have called on the government to put more funding into university support services. The vice chancellors committee called for mental and financial support for students as the institutions resume in-person teaching and learning in January. The committee warned a mental health crisis on campus has been exacerbated by coronavirus. The vice chancellors committee that represents 39 universities said the institutions had worked “really hard to transform support services to meet the challenges of the pandemic”,  including moving services online. “Universities will continue to work hard to provide the best possible support for students, however they are seeing significant increases in demand for university-funded support services, which we were already plugging the gaps resulting from the limited resources and funding," the committee chairman Geofferey Muluvi said. Muluvi, the vice vhancellor of the Southern Eastern Kenya University, said: “We are asking government to step up support for students. Universities need additional funding for support services in response to the additional demand and costs." Meanwhile, the body representing university student leaders noted that the proposed increase in fees and decline in student loans will hurt students. Nema Sheikh, the Kenya University Students Organization chairperson, supported the proposal by the university heads. He said there was a need for more financial support to be made available to students in January. Nema said the effects of coronavirus had adversely affected students’ ability to meet the university fees and needs. This comes against the backdrop of a push to triple university fees from next year and a drop in the amount offered by the loans board to students. The leaders argue that this will affect students as their mental health had deteriorated or has been negatively affected by the pandemic. “The pandemic has seen significant additional demand on student services. We seek that the government relooks and offers better financial support to students, not cutting down on the same,” Nema said. Classes have been pushed online this term and campus facilities restricted as universities undertook safety measures over coronavirus. KUSO said students’ social habits had changed, with more than half interacting less with other students in their institutions. University of Nairobi vice chancellor Stephen Kiama said universities have been working to transform support services to meet the challenges of the pandemic. Kiama said the UoN had moved counselling and advice online to identify those in difficulty and to meet new needs.