The Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti has continued to receive criticism across the country over his recent remarks on the 2007/2008 Post-Election Violence. The DCI boss was yet again on the receiving end on Tuesday from the legislators allied to the Deputy President William Ruto. The MPs had accompanied Ruto to the funeral service of Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri's mother, Edith Ngunjiri. Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua echoed the president’s words, asking Kinoti to think before taking such actions. He said the country has moved on, adding Rift Valley is at peace and revisiting the PEV will undermine the peace that is being enjoyed by the communities. Gachagua said that Kinoti does not understand how the president and his deputy restored peace in Rift Valley. “You have a lot of work to do, start with the people who stole the funds meant for coronavirus fight, before interfering with the existing peace,” Gachagua said. Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika asked the president to go ahead and fire the DCI boss for lacking decency in handling the 2007/2008 PEV. She said that Kinoti could have already been fired if the country could be believing in decency. “Kinoti would either already have been fired or like a decent human being, he would already resign. A man like that with no credibility should not be leading investigations in this country,” Kihika said. The senator claimed that the DCI boss could even plant evidence against some people. “Mr President, rebuking Kinoti is not enough. You need to fire him as an example to the civil servant in this country so that they would know that we have zero tolerance to the people trying to take the country back to 2007/2008,” she said. Kihika also said that the existing peace in the country would not be eroded by a section of individuals who have their hidden agenda. “Let us continue to leave in peace Nothing else is more precious than peace. And so, we must jealously guard our peace…we must not entertain such nonsense,” she said. Earlier on, the president denounced Kinoti's bid to open fresh investigations into the 2007-08 post-election violence. The President tore into Kinoti's move as reckless, with the potential of triggering fresh ethnic animosity in the country. Uhuru said the country has healed from the bloodbath that left more than 1,100 people dead and 650,000 forcefully uprooted from their homes in 2007-08. “You don't think before you talk, you don't think before you act. You must always think before you do something. Sisi hatutaki vita katika taifa letu la Kenya. Sisi wengine wetu tunajua maana ya amani (We do not want violence in our country. Some of us know the value of peace),” Uhuru said.