Politicians from both Garissa and Isiolo continue to trade blame over recent clashes that led to the death of nine people. At the weekend, Garissa leaders were particularly angered by Isiolo Woman Representative Rehema Jaldesa’s utterances that those killed from Garissa were bandits. The Garissa leaders say the dead were innocent herders. During a press briefing in Isiolo town, Jadelsa castigated Garissa Governor Ali Korane claiming he supported bandits. However, Korane said he only preached peace and co-existence between communities. The deceased, seven from Garissa and two from Isiolo, were killed when they exchanged fire, according to the authorities. Speaking to The Star on phone on Sunday, Jaldesa said she has no apologies to make for her remarks. She said that she did not incite people but only responded to what the governor had said the previous day. "While we have continued to accept herders from Garissa to graze in the area, our goodwill shouldn't be misused nor misconstrued as has been happening. Personally, I will not sit down and watch as my people continue to suffer," she said. She added: "The question we want to honestly ask ourselves is what were the slain men doing there at Quri because their livestock are not there that early. It is simple, they were bandits," she said. She added: "As leaders we are saying we are not going to fight our neighbors from Garissa, but we will deal with the bandits and criminals whose intention is to come and kill. "The governor ought to understand that the community land Act 65 guarantees communities to be the sole owners of their land and land rights.  Therefore, his threats of illegal occupation and trespassing of our land by his people is not only illegal but should be interpreted as an act of incitement," she said. Korane has also since defended his utterances, which he said were not inciting in any way. “First and foremost, I want to categorically state that I have no apologies to make to anyone. I want to repeat what I said in Eldere that our people will not sit back and wait for the criminals to unleash terror on them. Men should arm themselves with steel bars and protect their homesteads,” Korane said. “For the last three years, at least 70 people have been killed in the area by the marauding militants from Isiolo. These are human lives we are talking about here and not locusts being sprayed. Why can't those leaders first condemn the killings before pointing an accusing finger at me,” he added. In a press conference on Sunday, members of the Garissa County Assembly, who included Mohamed Siyad (Banane), Adow Mohamed (Holugho), Khatra Iman and Fahaan Ali (nominated) said that it was hypocritical for leaders from Isiolo to accuse the governor of incitement and turning a blind on the killers. “We are equally calling on Pastoral Parliamentary Group to relieve her (Jaldesa) of the secretary general position because she cannot represent the interest of pastoralists,” said Khatra Iman, a nominated MCA. On the expansionist agenda, Garissa leaders said every Kenyan has a right to live anywhere, hence the politician’s remarks on boundaries amount to incitement and aggravate the already tense situation. “Every Kenyan has the right to live. Besides, IEBC and provincial administration have sole responsibility over boundaries. Therefore, politicians talking about boundary issues can only amount to incitement and we treat it as such,” Khatra said. Fahan Ali, another nominated MCA, called on the government to take tough action against perpetrators of violence and address underlying issues between the two communities.