More than 100 residents of Giitu in North Imenti constituency will for the first time celebrate Christmas with electricity installed in their homes. Residents have been in the dark since Independence. Electricity in the village was installed through the Last Mile Connectivity project. Consumers pay Sh15,000 to be connected. Beneficiary Rose Karimi from Karingene-Kiambiti-Kirwa Last Mile project said her children now have better lighting to help them read at night. Kenya Power chief executive officer Benard Ngugi and North Imenti MP Rahim Dawood commissioned the project. Ngugi said more villages will be connected to the Last Mile project. He said electricity provided by the company is cheap compared to other sources of energy. “An average Kenyan should pay about Sh200 per month. One kilovolt is about Sh10 and can last for four days if used efficiently,” Ngugi said. Ngugi also said the company will intensify the use of live line technology for planned maintenance programmes. The technology enables Kenya Power technicians to carry out maintenance without switching off the power supply. The CEO urged residents to clear vegetation around power lines to minimise unplanned power disruptions. “Avoid cutting trees near the power lines. Inform us when there is a tree that needs to be cut,” Ngugi said. MP Dawood said he had forwarded a request for 55 transformers to boost electricity connectivity in the entire constituency. He said Parliament, through the Energy Committee, is ready to push for increased allocation of money to Kenya Power to ensure people in rural areas have electricity. “We still have many villages that do not have electricity,” Dawood said. He also urged residents to report illegal electricity connections. “Residents should not allow vandalism and illegal connections as this poses a risk and leads to KPLC incurring huge losses,” the MP said. According to KPLC data, the leading causes of electrocution are poor wiring at customer premises (24 per cent), illegal connections (16 per cent), structures and buildings near power lines (12 per cent), and deliberate acts (nine per cent). The 10 leading counties in cases of electrocution are Meru, Nairobi, Nakuru, Kericho, Uasin Gishu, Siaya, Busia, Nyamira, Kirinyaga, and Kiambu. 