Former Harambee Stars goalkeeper Wycliffe Kasaya's self confidence could easily be mistaken for arrogance if not cockiness. Take for instance his penchant for trying to dribble past an onrushing striker or his antic of rolling the ball behind the low of his back from one hand to the next during matches. The flamboyant custodian is known to be outspoken and doesn't suffer perceived injustice lying down. It doesn't surprise then that he was recently awarded millions after filing a case in court against his former club whom he accused of breaching his contract. But it is his current pre-occupation that would surprise those who don't know the Maringo-born shot stopper who currently ministers at the Mavuno church. "I am a missionary spreading the Gospel using my talent. I fellowship at Mavuno Church Mashariki campus." Asked how his Damascus moment came about, the former Gor Mahia custodian in his usual wide grin, said he believes the timing was right. "When it came, I think it was God's timing because in his timing, he makes all things beautiful,"he said and added: "I'm currently working with an international ministry from Philippines called Global Surge in conjunction with Mavuno Church and we're planning to start a church in Thailand. "I've been to Thailand twice using sports ministry to spread the Gospel. I was to relocate to Thailand but due to Covid-19 pandemic, the mission was halted for sometime. I thank my church Mavuno through our senior pastor Pastor Mureithi Wanjau for the support." 'Wiki' as Kasaya is fondly known, started playing football at Maringo estate in Eastlands while still in primary school. He used to look up to German and Bayern Munich goalkeeper Oliver Khan. " I was also a basketballer and I preferred using my hands more than my feet. That is how I felt more comfortable with the ball in my hand. But as a juggler, I was also at home with playing as an out-field player,"narrated Kasaya. As a teenager he could play football locally either at the nearby Owanjo Soo in Jericho estate or at Hamza grounds. An opportunity to feature in the popular December holidays tourney in Ziwani gave him the break he had been craving for. "I was named the best goalkeeper in Koth Biro tournament in the 2003 finals and that's where coaches discovered my talent." He played lower league football before he was recruited to feature for Red Berets and later went for police training and became a member of the paramilitary outfit General Service Unit. Kasaya played for the Police side until it was disbanded and with his desire to become a pro-footballer he had to make a tough decision on his career path. “I resigned from police to pursue my football career after the team was disbanded. Kasaya soon moved to Sony Sugar where his mercurial role between the sticks shone through and in 2013, he was recognised in the KPL Footballer of the Year Awards. “When I was playing for Sony, I won the 1st runners-up award as the best goalkeeper in KPL. It was a moment I realised that I had made the right decision to continue as a footballer and quit the Police service,”he recalled. Moves to bigger clubs emerged and he found himself at AFC Leopards and later joined arch rivals Gor Mahia. “At these clubs, I got the opportunity to be called in the national team. I also got the opportunity to play in the 'Mashemeji Derby' since it’s the biggest match in the country,”said Kasaya. But it was his move to Sofapaka that would plunge him back to the football limelight. After the player's contract was terminated in 2018, he decided in his characteristic no-holds-barred approach to fight for justice. “The unlawful termination of my contract without any mutual agreement was the genesis of my disagreement with Sofapaka and I could not sit back in the face of blatant violation of my contract,”he insisted. His fight in the corridors of justice would not be in vain as Football Kenya Federation Player Status Committee ordered Sofapaka to pay him Sh1.6 million for wrongful dismissal after looking into the case filed by the custodian who also played for Mathare United and Posta Rangers in his colourful career. “Players should never shy away from pursuing their right as football is a career like any other and contracts should be honoured to the letter.I hope the success of my case encourages clubs to take contracts seriously and not mere pieces of paper,”Kasaya implored. The player still feels he can still cut it at the highest level and said in a post three months ago that he might soon be back in the football pitch. “I was forced into early retirement because someone was selfish and decided to frustrate me. Well, I still think I have a lot to offer into this industry. I will be making a come back very soon. God’s time is always the best. It’s not over until it’s really over.” Indeed the life of one of the country’s eccentric goalkeepers may have taken on a new path but what is clear is that he will be winning people over whether by the Bible or by the ball. BIO Name-Wycliffe Kasaya Nationality-Kenya Date of birth: December 14, 1983 Age: 37 Country : Kenya Position-Goalkeeper Clubs-Red Berets(2007), Bandari (2011), Gor Mahia (2012), Sony Sugar (2013), AFC Leopards (2014), Mathare United (2016) and Sofapaka (2018) Achievements-KPL second best goalkeeper 2013 CECAFA Senior Challenge winner 2013