The Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai has called on the police officers in the country to ensure that the rights of Kenyans are respected while discharging their duties. In his new year message to Kenyans on Thursday, Mutyambai said that integrity, honesty, and true service are the foundation stone of spotless disciplined police service. “Our actions must therefore demonstrate respect for the people, honour for the offices we occupy, and devoid of any false sense of entitlement,” Mutyambai said. The IG said that the efforts to fight corruption within the service is unwavering, calling upon the police officers to continue giving faithful services to the public. Mutyambai said that terrorism still remains a major cause of insecurity in the country, adding that the security forces managed to thwart a number of planned attacks in the country. “We must remain vigilant at all times for our own safety, and that of the public.” He noted that there have been isolated cases of ethnic violence, perpetrated by cattle theft which has left a number of people dead and property destruction. To mitigate cattle theft, the IG has asked commanders in the affected areas to work closely with other security officers as well as other community initiatives to restore peace in the affected areas. The police boss added that road carnage remains a major cause of death across the country, lauding the concerted effort to bring back order on roads which has reduced the number of deaths being reported on roads. “Drivers, pedestrians, and riders must strictly observers traffic laws and rules. Direct every police officer to exercise their constitutional mandate on enforcing safety on our roads, especially during this festive season.” At the same time, the IG remembered the gallant officers who lost their lives or suffered injuries in the line of duty. “We recognize with deep appreciation their sacrifice and willingness to pay the ultimate price for the safety and security of our great nation and their people.” Mutyambai has also asked Kenyans to continue observing the Covid-19 protocols in order to reduce the further spread of the deadly virus, which has left more than 1,500 people dead since March 2020. Regarding the virus, Mutyambai has asked the station commanders to ensure that the cells are not congested.