Eight North Rift counties have spent more than Sh1.5 billion to improve health facilities, mainly during the Covid-19 pandemic. Governors who spoke separately to the Star said they are confident hospitals have a better capacity to serve the public than before  the pandemic. Nandi Deputy Governor Yulita Mitei said better health facilities now can handle many ailments, including Covid-19. She said most counties, like Nandi, which did not have any ICU facilities now have several ICUs installed over seven months She said Covid-19 forced the country to reorganise its resources to better serve Kenyans during and after the pandemic. “Covid-19 has had both negative and good effects and among the positive things is that counties have invested more in healthare than before," Mitei said. Almost none of the North Rift counties had ICU beds but Nandi now has 10, Elgeyo Marakwet 10 and Trans Nzoia eight. West Pokot county is the final stages of setting up a Sh80 million, nine-bed ICU at Kapenguria Referral Hospital. The county has procured ICU equipment for seven beds and five ventilators. It already had some equipment. The unit will be launched next week. “This is a major boost to our healthcare system. Our county has moved from zero ICU beds to nine," Governor John Longyangapuo said after touring the hospital. The county already had two CPAP (Continuous Positive Airway Pressure) ventilators. “This signifies commitment to expanding our capacity as we continue to revamp our healthcare system," the governor said. Governor Alex Tolgos of Elgeyo Marakwet says despite challenges, the  counties have used massive resources to upgrade facilities in both urban and rural areas. “My county did not have any ICU beds but we now have 10. Our facilities in all areas have better capacity to offer good medical services and we urge residents to be confident in our facilities," Tolgos said. Turkana also has five new ICU beds while Baringo and Samburu are in the process of setting up well-equipped ICU units. Each of the counties has invested between Sh120 million and Sh300 million on ICUs, depending on the size and type of equipment used. Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital also  increased its ICU beds capacity to 30 from six two years ago. Hospital CEO Dr Wilson Arusa said the new ICU units include four put up by the Uasin Gishu county government. (Edited by V. Graham) 