The government now says it will not replace health care workers who are on strike by recruiting others. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe on Tuesday said that move aims to ensure the government continues to provide continued health service in all our public health facilities. Earlier on Kagwe had warned that health workers who would participate in the ongoing countrywide strike would be sacked. But in a surprise turn, Kagwe said, “The government will endeavor to ensure that we do not abandon Kenyans by recruiting and replacing striking staff with other healthcare workers who are seeking employment in order to ensure that we provide continued service in all our public health facilities. I take note that some counties have already advertised for these positions,” Kagwe said. According to the CS, to ensure that Kenyans continue to get services, the government has instructed NHIF to expedite the declaration and contracting process for 348 facilities to ensure that they are available to offer services to NHIF beneficiaries. This he said should happen as soon as possible. “The Minister of Health has returned to the Council of governors requesting the county governments in liaison with the County Department of social protection to identify the poor and vulnerable households for enlisting progressively to the UHC scheme as beneficiaries,”  he said. Kagwe said this will ensure that the most vulnerable groups are cushion appropriately. “We call upon the legislation both parliament and county assemblies, to give the executive one opportunity to manage employee relations. This will create a conducive and fair environment that will allow focus on the fight against the epidemic,” the CS said. Kagwe said besides losing healthcare workers and not downplaying the fact that healthcare workers are more exposed by the virus and greater risk, there are also teachers,  political leaders,  media personalities and other professionals including lawyers,  financial experts and even school children who have succumbed to the disease. “No one has been spared but we appreciate that because of the exposure, health care workers deserve a little bit more care, and I have said it from the word go that the  nation fast takes care of his soldiers during a war so that they can protect the others,” he said. He said as conciliation efforts between union officials, Council of governors and national governments continue, most of the demands have been met. But please do not think that it is possible to meet everything that you ask for. Kagwe said it is unfair for the health workers to demand for something and later shift the goalposts when it has been provided. “It appears that the intention is to go on strike anyway, irrespective of what comes up or irrespective of what we are able to do,” he said. Kagwe maintained that the court while terming the strike illegal had issued orders against the three unions to stop the strike and allow for negotiations. “Employees who engage in an unprotected strike, such as the one healthcare workers Irene are liable for disciplinary action by the employer. Besides continuing with a strike is a sign of bad faith on the part of the healthcare workers, because it is at a time like this when the country is suffering,” he said. He added, “It is at a time when we are hearing there is a variant of the virus that has emerged and it is possible for us because of this variant virus to start taking even more measures like the possibility of what to do about the flights. We are entering back into a situation that is an unknown”. On conversion about contractual employment to permanent and pensionable times as well as on the harmonization of risk allowances, the CS Said the issues are currently being addressed, but mooted by a multi-agency committee headed by the Cabinet Secretary Ministry of Labor and Social Protection. He said contractual engagement is recognized by law and therefore the parties need to be guided by the terms of the agreement. “I am personally per tabbed by the demands that a bonus given on the basis of goodwill and as  a thank you by the President of the Republic of Kenya to our health workers is now being demanded to be a permanent future. It is difficult to fathom this akin to somebody giving you a Christmas present, and then you demand that the same Christmas present must now be given to you every day. It's a bit difficult to come to terms with it,” he said. Kagwe said despite significant strides made towards addressing the issues to the largest extent possible, it is regrettable that the health care workers have chosen to down their tools and deny innocent Kenyans the much-needed health care service.