World 10km record holder Rhonex Kipruto will face his young brother, Bravin Kogei, at Saturday’s Valencia Half Marathon. The siblings will be tackling the course alongside their training mate at St. Patrick's Training Camp in Iten, Solomon Boit, a 2018 World Under 20 10,000m finalist. The trio will be making their debut over the distance in the Spanish city, hoping to make an impression. Kipruto, the world record holder over 10km (26:24) and reining world under 20 10,000m champion, said his ambition is to win the half marathon on debut. “I want to leave a mark in Valencia. This will be my first half marathon and I want to do something good for myself, fellow Kenyan athletes and the country,” said the former Africa Junior cross country champion. The world 10,000m (26:50.32) bronze medalist has high hopes of winning and celebrating with his training mates. “If I win, we shall celebrate together with Kogei as well as Boit because we are training mates and we help each other a lot,” added the UAK Healthy Kidney 10km champion. Kogei, who completed his Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) last year at Kombatich Secondary School also has high hopes of beating his training mates to the crown. “It won’t be an easy task and that is why I have been preparing very well for the race. It will be my first time but that can’t kill my hopes. We have had good training and winning the race will be good to prove my career,” said Kogei. Boit, who finished fourth at the 2018 World Under 20 10,000m race in Tampere, Finland, said his debut in half marathon will impact his future in the discipline after dominating school games last year. “Facing a new challenge is always good for an athlete and this will be the best for me. I have been training well with my brother Kipruto and Boit. With such great athletes surrounding me, I will be grateful to come home with the title,” said Kogei. Boit said: “Just like any athlete, I want that title to come home. If my training mates win, then we will celebrate together. If I win, which I have confidence I will, then I will be one of the happiest athletes. Winning the title on debut would be historic.”