Students have accused the Ministry of Education of ignoring sexual harassment in campus, even after they petitioned it in 2019. CampusMeToo, a student-led pan-African movement, wants it to develop ways to end sexual harassment in universities and colleges. In December 2019, the movement handed over a petition to Charles Obiero, deputy director, Directorate of Higher Education. The petition was created by the students and circulated throughout the country, with 11,000 signatures appended to their demands. They now want all newly enrolled students to be facilitated to watch an educational resource on sexual harassment and make sexual harassment a topic in every induction for newly enrolled students. They also want the ministry to conduct a yearly training for all staff on sexual harassment and that at the end of the training, all staff must sign a standardised code of conduct and ethics. Following a recent report by ActionAid, students have attributed the rising sexual harassment cases in universities and colleges to a culture of complacency among university leadership. "University management in Kenya are aware of the sex-for-grades/missing marks issue, but they have chosen to accept the abuse of young men and women," the CampusMeToo students say. "Consequently, sexual harassment from staff towards students can be characterised as an institutionalised and normalised inequality and practice in institutions of higher learning in Kenya." The students thus called for a gender officer to be appointed with the obligation to facilitate training and outreach. The officer should also provide resources and support to victims, develop, implement and review relevant policies on sexual harassment. “Establish an investigative committee that students can approach when they have received unfair or missing marks due to instances of sexual harassment from university lecturers or staff.” They want the ministry to respond to their petition demands and implement a sexual harassment assessment survey every two years to monitor the issue. They also want their demands incorporated into the sexual harassment policy, an annual report published detailing the progress on achieving the objectives. “There is need to scale up prevention efforts that address unequal gender power relations as a root cause of gender-based violence,” the students said. They have called on stakeholders to evaluate programmes that have effectively structured participatory activities that guide the examination of gender norms and their relationship to power inequities, violence and other harmful behaviours. They added that sexual harassment is a significant barrier to the achievement of every development outcome. Sustainable Development Goal 5 recognises that gender equality is the foundation for a “peaceful, prosperous and sustainable world”, and that this includes a world free of gender-based violence. Goal 5 explicitly calls for the elimination of “all forms of violence against all women and girls in the public and private spheres”. Edited by T Jalio