The government should find ways of incorporating retired judges into the legal system to tap into their wealth of knowledge and experience, veteran lawyer John Khaminwa has said. He said a lot needs to be done to strengthen the legal and judicial system. “It does not make sense to me that a judge who has done so much for this country is seen rearing pigs or tending cows in some remote parts of this country,” Khaminwa said on Thursday. He spoke at the High Court in Mombasa during special proceedings called 'The Last Conversations' in honour of Chief Justice David Maraga. Maraga, who began his career as a judge at the Mombasa High Court on October 28, 2003, will be retiring as the CJ on January 19, 2021. “We should make use of retiring judges,” Khaminwa, who has over 55 years of experience as a lawyer, said. He said the independence of the Judiciary, rule of law and constitutionalism are concepts that must be respected if the country is to be respected as a powerhouse in the region and the world. Khaminwa said Kenya had the best opportunity to show the world that it is a country governed by the rule of law after CJ Maraga famously annulled the last presidential results of the general elections and ordered a repeat. He said President Uhuru Kenyatta made 'unfortunate remarks' after the election was annulled. Khaminwa was referring to the “we shall revisit” remarks the President made at the time. Since then, the relationship between the President and the Chief Justice has been rocky. Khaminwa, who said he has a special admiration for Maraga, said the CJ was the only one who stood by him during one of the most trying moments of his career as an advocate. He said at a time when even his closest friends shunned him, Maraga invited him to appear with him in a case in Nakuru. “The case involved people in high political offices in the government. Then, some people I thought were my friends ran away from me,” the 84-year-old lawyer said. He said at the time, Maraga allowed him to stay in his house. “As you retire, my Lord Justice, you have scored a first,” Khaminwa told Maraga. 