Lamu religious and political leaders have proposed the death penalty for drug dealers in the region. The two groups agreed that only the severest of punishment would discourage people from engaging in the illicit trade. Speaking during the opening of a new community mosque in Ndaum island, Lamu Woman Representative Ruweida Obbo said the war on drugs can only be won through extreme measures that include the death of those involved. She said police should be allowed to shoot to kill drug dealers on sight instead of taking them to court where they eventually get bailed out and carry on with the illegal trade. “We are asking the government to sentence these people to death. The society will definitely be better without them. We want police to be given the green light to shoot and kill them on sight since arresting and charging them in court hasn’t helped anything,” Obbo said Obbo said drugs had played a huge role in the high poverty levels in Lamu as users direct their money towards satisfying their urge instead of attending to their basic human needs. She revealed that out of every 100 people hooked to drugs in Lamu, more than 20 suffer from HIV/AIDS. She called on members of the public to cooperate with security and other agencies to end the vice by speaking up and revealing the identities of drug dealers in their areas instead of hiding them. Religious leaders said it was impossible for Lamu to achieve its development goals as the younger generation, which is expected to take charge, is busy doing drugs. Elder Yusuf Omar said there is a need for the government to change tack so as to win the war on drugs. "The courts bit is not working, the government should try eliminating these people so that society is cleaner and better each time. It is more effective that way as others will be alert,”  Omar said. The Coast Interfaith Council of Clerics chairperson Mohamed Abdulkadir noted with concern that women were being used to smuggle drugs into and out of Lamu as they are barely searched at the police checks like their male counterparts. He urged the government to deploy more female officers on roadblocks in the region to allow for thorough checks on women and put a stop to the trend. “We propose they bring more female officers to break the cycle because It is hard for male officers to search female passengers. The drug dealers know this and have taken advantage of using women to transport drugs”‚ Abdulkadir said Elder Hassan Munir said drug dealers once arrested should not be released at any cost. “Kenyan courts need to deny such people bail and bonds and let them stay in custody until their cases are determined then head to prison,” he said. Edited by Kiilu Damaris