President Uhuru Kenyatta's allies have launched the collection of BBI signatures in Rift Valley, DP William Ruto's backyard. Ruto has been lukewarm about BBI but has endorsed some changes. Senate Deputy Speaker Margaret Kamar led the signature drive on Monday along with Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos, MPs William Chepkut (Chepkut) and Sila Tiren of Moiben. They said Rift Valley residents will benefit from BBI, like other Kenyans. Tiren and Chepkut said it was pointless for residents, especially the Kalenjin community, to be misled into rejecting the BBI because of the political interests of some individuals in the region. It was an apparent reference to DP Ruto who has said Kenyans have more pressing problems. “As the Kalenjin community, we should not oppose the BBI for political reasons. During the last referendum we were on the No side but we have been beneficiaries of the Constitution. This time, let's move along with other Kenyans," Chepgut said. Kamar said strengthening devolution and representation and benefits for farmers were the highlights of the BBI document. Governor Tolgos, who also led the signatures collection in Elegyo Marakwet, urged leaders and residents to back BBI because it provides many benefits and strengthens devolution. Tolgos said residents should not be misled to oppose BBI for political reasons but should consider the benefits. He said increasing the financial allocation to 35 per cent for counties ill improve the lives of all Kenyans. “Counties like mine have very few resources and we believe through  the BBI counties will get more money and we will also benefit," Tolgos said. He said it was unfortunate that leaders and residents of Rift Valley had spent too much time criticising the BBI instead of having their views put forward. “Even some of us supporting the BBI have been branded enemies of the community yet we are fighting for more resources for our people through stronger devolution as proposed in the BBI," Tolgos said. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago and Nandi Governor Stephen Sang warned residents to be cautious about BBI, saying it has problems. “We are already complaining about a huge wage bill yet through the BBI we want to increase the number of MPs to more than 600. That will overburden Kenyans who are already suffering in a bad economy," Sang said. He said the referendum was not a priority for Kenyans and if the Constitution is to be amended, then there should be consensus on the issues. Mandago told off area chiefs who were given booklets to collect signatures for the BBI. “One chief asked me about BBI. I don't work in the county commissioner’s office and if you have questions, ask whoever gave you those booklets," Mandago said. Dandi Deputy Governor Yulita Mitei said BBI should not be imposed on Kenyans who have more burning issues to deal with. “Kenyans are bothered about serious issues like the bad economy we have currently and Covid-19. Let BBI not be forced down the throats of Kenyans," Mitei said. (Edited by V. Graham)  