A farmers' union has asked the government to ensure an annual increase of three percent in the budgetary allocation to the agricultural sector is factored in in the building bridges initiative report. Kenya's national federation of farmers (Kenaff) said with the increment, the country will not only attain but also exceed the 10 per cent Malabo commitment by the year 2025. Addressing the press, Bomet branch chairperson David Tiroto said the only way agriculture can be transformed so as to ensure the livelihoods of the people is improved is to have more funds allocated to it. He said it was sad that agriculture being the backbone of the economy was receiving little allocation and the way only to realize its growth was to have more funds and which will only be possible by integrating it in the BBI report. "We believe that a vibrant agricultural sector driven by farmers with enhanced incomes and quality livelihoods is the prosperity across all the villages, wards, towns and cities in Kenya," he stated. Tiroto expressed his disappointment over what he termed as the noninclusion of crucial elements that aimed at reaping maximum benefits from their produces despite contributing 26 per cent of the country's GDP directly and 27 percent indirectly while accounting for 65 percent of the country's export earnings and providing a livelihood for 80 percent of the population. "The unceasing neglect of farmers by the government causes massive and systematic harm to the economy while undercutting the achievement of vision 2030 as well as contributing to a poverty-ridden population," he noted. The official also recommended that farmers be represented in all organizations and institutions as it has a direct bearing on their livelihoods and quality of life. The organizations include Kalro, Kenya Seed Company, agriculture and food authority, agricultural development corporation and the national health insurance fund. Farmers, he noted, constitute the majority of the population hence they ought to be involved in every step of decision making adding some regulations being put in place by some of the organizations are oppressive. Tiroto further appealed to the government to guarantee farmers a minimum return for their crops, livestock, fisheries and forestry primary products.