Burial preparations for Nyamira County Governor, the late John Obiero Nyagarama, are in top gear both at his home at Tente and funeral ceremony venue at Nyamira Primary school grounds. Nyamira County funeral planning and execution committee are doing the last-minute preparation to ensure that they give the late governor a befitting send off. Nyamira County commissioner, Amos Mariba, who is chairing the planning and execution committee, confirmed that the departed leader will be given a state burial on Thursday and the Head of State has confirmed his attendance. “We want to ensure that all the necessary preparations for the burial of our departed leader are finalized on time to avoid unnecessary last-minute rush which may bring unwarranted confusion and embarrassment,” the commissioner said. He further urged all the committee members who have been assigned specific duties in ensuring that the ceremony is a success to work round the clock so that all goes as planned. He clarified that the late governor’s burial will be held. A two-day event which will commenced on Wednesday at Nyamira primary school grounds, whereby all the local leaders, family members and relatives to the governor will be given a chance to give their tributes and mourn the leader and thereafter a comprehensive interdenominational church memorial service by clergy from the area tomorrow. Thursday will be the official state funeral ceremony. The chair further said the remains of late Nyagarama will be flown from Lee Funeral home, Nairobi on Thursday morning and land at his first home at Riamanoti, Nyansingo ward in Borabu Sub County for brief viewing by his family and community members and later to Nyamira Town. He appealed to members of the public to remain calm as plans are underway to broadcast the funeral service live so that they can participate from the comfort of their homes as adherence to health protocols due to the tough times of Covid-19 disease are observed. Other key leaders steering the county funeral execution committee are the County’s Secretary, James Ntabo, Assembly Speaker, Moffat Teya, Members of the County Assembly, County Executive Committee members, and security team amongst other top government officers. Nyamira County Governor passed on the morning of December 18, 2020 at Nairobi Hospital after being hospitalized for three weeks. His body has been lying at Lee Funeral home awaiting burial on Thursday this week. Leaders from various parts of the country and beyond led by the President Uhuru Kenyatta, have eulogized the governor as a great leader who initiated devolution in Nyamira. 