Gor Mahia FC assistant coach Patrick Odhiambo is confident of going past CR Belouizdad of Algeria in the next round of CAF Champions League. Speaking soon after the Kenyan Premier League champions kicked off their new season campaign with a hard-fought 1-0 win over Ulinzi Stars at Nyayo Stadium on Saturday, Odhiambo said his side has put in place a good training schedule to enable them challenge effectively in the continental showpiece. "I thank the boys for the three points, it was a good game especially coming at at time we are preparing for our next Caf match. I believe we have the capacity to clinch the title," said Odhiambo. The first leg of the Champions League will be played on December 22/23 in Algeria, with the return leg planned for January 5/6, 2021 in Nairobi. Odhiambo  has been tasked with guiding the side as reports emerge that the Kenyan champions are on the verge of parting ways with head coach Roberto 'Robertinho' Oliveira and are keen to draft Sammy Omollo from Posta Rangers to plug the void. Roberto bumped into a major hiccup barely a month after taking charge at the club following a decision by the Confederation of African Football to prohibit him from handling the team in continental assignments owing to inferior coaching qualifications. Odhiambo said the club had recruited quality personnel during the just concluded transfer window and he was particularly impressed by Jules Ulimwengu who netted the all important goal that claimed the scalp of the soldiers in their opening KPL encounter. "I believe we brought in some good players who can help us challenge for the Caf title. I'm happy with Ulimwengu's performance this afternoon. He is definitely back in shape," Odhiambo said. K'Ogalo's first-choice keeper Gad Mathews who was the toast of the day against Ulinzi after his superb and daring saves says he has trust in the entire squad and believes that they can clinch the Champions League. "Yes, I believe that Gor will proceed to the finals. It's great to bring the team back into the mood of winning. Besides, it's my responsibility to make sure they don't concede any goals and I believe I will keep doing exactly that," Matthews said. The immediate former Kisumu All Stars custodian sprang to the team's rescue at least thrice against Ulinzi and his fine form has seen him consolidate a consistent role in the starting line up. Skipper Kenneth Muguna who was introduced in the second half of the match is also upbeat ahead of the Caf tie and believes their positive start to the season gives them all the more reason to believe in themselves.