Parliamentary aspirants who wanted to vie for the Matungu seat on ANC ticket have faulted the party’s decision to hand-pick a candidate for the race. The aspirants said they have already asked their supporters to await communication from them on how to vote on March 4. They included Asomba Nasebe, Charles Lutta, Athman Wangara, Auma Faida and Stanlus Kubende. They condemned the direct nomination of Peter Nabulindo, claiming he was a Ford Kenya member. The aspirants said the direct nomination has hurt ANC supporters in Matungu as they had toiled to popularise the party since the constituency was an ODM zone. “It was not a walk in the park, the constituency having been an ODM zone. We are consulting to give direction to our supporters,” they said in a statement. “We decry lack of democracy and failure by the party to adhere to the laid down procedures in the party’s constitution as to the nomination of candidates.” Nabulindo ran on a Ford Kenya ticket in the 2017 General Election but lost to Justus Murunga. Nabulindo garnered 10,636 votes against Murunga’s 18,088. Former MP David Were was third with 8,618 votes. ANC chairman Kelvin Lunani, however, said the decision to hand Nabulindo a direct ticket was reached after various considerations in line with the party constitution. “The National Elections Board considered the strict timelines that were set by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, the prevailing Covid-19 protocols on public gatherings and the report from the ground on how many candidates had shown interest in the ANC party ticket and how many complied with the ANC constitution,” he said. Lunani further said Nabulindo effectively joined the party from Ford Kenya and has complied with all the requirements of ANC and the Registrar of Political Parties. The aspirants, however, said the action taken by the party to unveil the candidate on Monday goes against the rules and the fair administration of justice. “As a result, we have come together to map the way forward to ensure that a credible and popular candidate wins the Matungu parliamentary seat,” they said. Acknowledging that it was not easy to give a direct nomination, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi said every party was looking for Nabulindo. He asked the people of Matungu to support Nabulindo as he is the best candidate to inherit Murunga’s seat. “I ask you the people of Matungu, our brothers from the Wanga clan, this is the time for you to show Kenya that the Luhya unity is real. We are not divided as many perceive. We want you to shock this country on 4 March by voting in Nabulindo,” Mudavadi said. Lugari MP Ayub Savula emphasised on the need to have ANC win the Matungu seat. He said they know the Tangatanga wing of the Jubilee Party was eyeing Nabulindo. 