Family members forbade mourners from wearing any face coverings at the funeral of a young man killed in Busia on November 27 for allegedly not putting on a mask. Ezekiel Odera, 20, was shot by a policeman at Roadblock bus stop in Malaba and died from his injuries. On Monday, a group of youths moved around Malaba town and the neighbouring estates telling residents who intended to attend the funeral not to carry face masks. Mourners turned up for the Tuesday funeral service without masks and those who arrived wearing them were ordered to remove them. The family said the decision was to protest against police harassment of people who do not wear face masks in contravention of Health ministry guidelines to contain the coronavirus. “Odera’s death came early. To show solidarity with the family everyone should remove his or her mask,” a youth at the ceremony ordered before everyone complied. “Police brutality must stop. Odera should have been arrested and arraigned if he had no face mask.” Youths from Malaba town and its environs jammed the funeral and delayed the lowering of the body into the grave for close to an hour. They demanded that Odera be buried at 7.30pm, the exact time he is claimed to have been shot. But local elders calmed down the situation and the body was lifted shoulder high and taken to the white-painted grave. For the first time in Kajei-Enyuru village, a casket bearing a body was chauffeured to the gravesite accompanied by reggae music. Ordinarily in Teso, sacred songs are sung at funeral processions. Religious leaders watched from a distance as the events unfolded. Calls for justice for Odera and his family dominated speeches by local leaders during the event. Teso North Chamber of Commerce chair Fred Papa said besides the officer accused of pulling the trigger being arraigned, the others who have overstayed in Malaba should be transferred. Henry Mwaura, the police officer accused of shooting Odera, was arrested on November 28. He was expected to appear in court on Wednesday for the mention of his case. “We don’t want any incident of this kind to happen again. Let us bury Ezekiel Odera, but let us not forget to seek justice,” Papa said. He said if justice fails to prevail, more protests will be called in Malaba town. Teso North constituency manager Ronald Ochalu said it was sad that Odera lost his life “for not wearing a mask”. “Failing to wear a face mask should never be a reason to take away someone’s life. We will continue pursuing the legal process until justice is served,” he said. Walatsi MCA Gaddy Jakaa said Odera’s death had denied him the opportunity to serve the local community. He said Odera will be missed since he played a primary role in providing for his family. The ward rep said police bosses should move officers who have served in local stations for too long. Former Malaba Central MCA Ishmael Orodi blamed Odera’s shooting on the deteriorating relationship between the police and residents of Malaba town. Teso North youth representative Leonard Karakach said the government should compensate the bereaved family. Odera was a student at Kolanya Boys High School but dropped out for lack of school fees. He worked at a car wash centre in Malaba town at the time of his death. The death triggered violent protests in Malaba town as security officers engaged with demonstrators who lit bonfires along the Malaba-Bungoma highway and along the Malaba-Angurai road. The funeral was held on a day Busia county recorded 28 Covid-19 cases out of the 521 registered nationally. (edited by o. owino)