A major row has erupted in Chama Cha Mashinani (CCM) party after former Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto declared that the party will support Baringo Senator Gideon Moi for the presidency in 2022. The statement irked Secretary-General Bundotich Kiprop Buzeki who is now threatening to quit the party if Rutto who is its leader continues to make unilateral decisions and statements on key matters without consulting party organs. Buzeki says the statement by Rutto was reckless and made without consultations and that at no time had CCM party organs met to talk about the issue. He said Gideon Moi had not formally requested for support from CCM for the top seat. Although Buzeki said he was still SG of the party, sources in CCM say he was on his way out following the row between him and Rutto. “I am still the SG of the party but if such unilateral statements continue to be made then I will not be a party to that. I will have to consult my supporters and make a decision,” said Buzeki. Buzeki who was speaking to the Star on phone said he was a person who believes in institutions and that when he joined CCM with his supporters there was an understanding with Rutto’s wing on how they would operate. He said when Rutto made the statement in Bomet a week ago during the launch of BBI signature collection, his (Buzeki’s) supporters were taken back and surprised because no decision had so far been made on whom to back for the presidency. “I was overwhelmed by enquiries from supporters over the statement. Some said they did not know that I was using Isaac Rutto as my political short cut to reach Gideon Moi yet that has not been the case,” said Buzeki. He said he had since talked to Rutto over the statement but the former governor had explained that his statement was taken out of context. The launch of the BBI signatures collections was presided over by Gideon but Buzeki was not present. “If you declare that you will run for the presidency in 2022, then you will have our backing,” Rutto was quoted to have said during the Bomet function. Rutto’s phones had been switched off and he could not be reached for comment on the row in the party but Buzeki said CCM must operate by its constitution including through the National Executive Committee (NEC) which has powers to make key decisions. Buzeki says he is a politician of an independent mind who respects procedures and party organs and that he cannot accept to be pushed around. “The era when party leaders used other members to drive their agenda is long gone and I don’t expect that in CCM,” said Buzeki. Buzeki quit the Jubilee Party in May 2019 after a row with Deputy President William Ruto and his allies. He accused the DP and his allies of misusing their positions in Jubilee to frustrate him politically. The millionaire businessman had vied for the governorship in Uasin Gishu through Jubilee but lost to Governor Jackson Mandago during fierce party nominations. He later vied as an independent candidate and came second to Mandago. Buzeki has indicated that he would vie again in 2022 through CCM and also ensure that the Isaac Rutto-led party field candidates in all areas in Rift Valley. Buzeki says eventually they would decide on which candidate to back for the presidency in 2022 but at the moment they had been concentrating on strengthening CCM. Four months ago Buzeki as SG, led the party in signing a coalition agreement with Jubilee and he says he is not aware of any other coalition agreement including that with Kanu. Gideon and Rutto had a week ago said they would work closely ahead of 2022 and they have already initiated plans to rival DP Ruto’s influence within the Rift Valley region.