Tourism players have blamed dirty beaches and congestion on its narrow streets by boda boda riders for the poor state of the sector in Lamu. Movement in Lamu has mainly been on foot or donkeys but the introduction of automobiles has caused traffic congestion. “Tourists no longer find Lamu town appealing. The locals have also complained about the boda boda menace and the dirty environment‚” Lamu Tourism Caucus Official Abdallah Fadhil said. Fadhil said they have nil bookings this December and things are still not looking up. Something needs to be done about the boda boda trade and the dirt in the heart of the town or it will get worse, he said. Tourism is among Lamu’s top economic earners. This year, the county has recorded the lowest turnout of tourists, both local and international. Former Lamu Tourism Association deputy chair Ghalib Alwy said that the tourism sector in Lamu is at its lowest. He warned that Lamu Old Town risked losing its World Heritage Site status as measures are not taken to preserve it. The town which is a rich reservoir of unique and well-preserved cultures that depict the lives of Africans, Arabs and Indians who inhabited the region in past decades has been placed on the Unesco watchlist as being under threat from westernisation and modernity. “There is too much westernisation happening here and that shouldn’t be the case of a Unesco site. We need to identify whatever is posing a risk and stop it before it’s too late,” Alwy said. The world heritage site listing requires that locations maintain their originality and resist any form of influence, especially to the architecture, culture and heritage. However, for Lamu Old Town, the growing introduction and use of modern means of transportation like automobiles, motorbikes and tuk tuks is making the threat more real. Alwy said the region has only recorded less than 30 per cent tourism response despite it being peak season with anticipated higher returns. Beach operators have accused the county government of doing less to ensure proper waste disposal, with dirt ending up on the beaches, leaving an appalling scenario for tourists and visitors. “Our beaches have been the major attraction for tourists but not any more. Beaches like Wiyoni, Matondoni, Kiunga and other places are deplorable,” Ali Bana, a beach operator said. In Lamu and the Coast region, the high tourist season begins around June and runs till January.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris