Suna East MP Junet Mohamed as hit back at DP Ruto for calling for further amendments to the BBI Bill. Junet said Ruto, instead of hiding behind the consensus debate, should come out clearly and say he is leading the 'No' campaign against the referendum. Ruto and his Tangatanga brigade said the referendum should be pushed to 2022 and held alongside the General Election to cut costs. "The referendum question can be included in the general election as the 7th question. We recommend that we have the referendum at the general elections and this will be at no extra cost for the IEBC," he said. Ruto said his team wants to be persuaded why they cannot do the referendum in 2022. "These are proposals we are putting in good faith. We appreciate that there has been a lot of push and pull. We are not making any demands; we are putting our case and believe we have a strong case. There is room to further amend this document. It is never too late to amend it," he said. "...We care far too much for this country to reduce this matter to a Yes or No contest. We are of the view that the referendum should be held alongside the 2022 General Election..." a statement by Ruto and his allies read. Ruto said Kenyans are concerned about the size of Parliament and the Executive. His brigade said the current resources earmarked for BBI related activities should be directed to Covid-19 mitigation measures and supporting the recovery of micro and small enterprises. The legislators said the BBI recommendations do not propose a constitutional replacement through the repeal and promulgation but rather an amendment on various discreet provisions. “ In short, we must agree on what,  the how and when the consensus is to align the process with its founding objectives and bring it closer to the dreams and aspirations of Kenyans by content. We mean we resolve outstanding issues through consensus including issues on Judiciary independence, bloated government and legislature equity and equality in the presentation and affirmative action, among others,” read part of the statement. It further read, “By timing, we mean we should hold a referendum in 2022 together with a general election in order to save costs”. However, Junet, who is the co-chair of the secretariat, said that was a clear signal that Ruto is putting ultimatums as he heads to the ‘No’ side. In an interview with KTN News on Wednesday, Junet said so far the secretariat has collected over four million signatures. "We are just finalising on the process before we take the signatures to IEBC for verification,” Junet said. “What the DP is proposing is already outdated because we have already passed that stage. We had two years to get views from all Kenyans; where was he? Does he mean that everything has been done behind his back?” he posed. Junet said the DP should be reminded that no one has stopped him from conducting a parallel referendum if he feels he is not satisfied with the current document.