Striking medical workers in Eldoret stormed Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago's office, demanding their complaints be addressed so they can resume work. Mandago was not in and no one addressed them on Wednesday evening. Governors in the North Rift have largely remained silent about the strike by nurses and clinicians, though health services are devolved. The strike entered its 11th day on Thursday. A crowd of nurses and medical clinicians carrying twigs and placards barricaded the entrance to the county offices for many hours. Nurses' union secretary Joseph Chebii said the government and counties had ignored them for a long time. He said they would not give up and return to work until comprehensive medical insurance is put in place, among other demands. Chebii accused the government of taking too long to deal with their grievances yet Kenyans were suffering due to lack of medical services in hospitals. He said Uasin Gishu had not promoted health workers since Mandago took over as governor in 2013. “That is why we came here so the governor and other relevant department heads can hear our cries and act to end the crisis in the health sector," Chebii said. Hospitals in most of the North Rift have shut down most operations. Most county health centres, subcounty hospitals and referral facilities in Uasin Gishu, Nandi, Trans Nzoia and Elegyo Marakwet were deserted as patients were turned away by security guards. Striking health workers said only the establishment of a Health Services Commission can effectively solve their problems. It would handle employment, promotions, salaries, training, safety at work and allowances, among other issues. They demand enough quality PPE to help fight the Covid-19 pandemic. Nurses union chairman for the region Beatrice Kariuki said suffering Kenyans should support strikers so their demands are addressed. “We know members of the public are suffering but we urge them to back us so they get quality services in all hospitals. If medical staff are taken care of, they will do the same for the public," she said. Most services have been disrupted in Uasin Gishu county referral hospital along those at Kitale and Kapsabet referral hospitals. “Covid-19 is the greatest challenge to health workers because of the risks of infection and yet the government is taking everything lightly as if the lives of medical workers don’t matter," Chiebii said. The National Council of Churches of Kenya in Rift Valley urged the national government and counties to urgently address complaints by striking medics so they can resume work. The officials led by Venerable Solomon Chelal said most services were unavailable when Kenyans were suffering due to the spread of the virus. He called for dialogue about problems undermining medics' work. “The medical workers have genuine concerns that can be dealt with through dialogue. Being dismissive will not help resolve the problems but will cause more suffering to Kenyans seeking medical services," Chelal said. (Edited by V. Graham)