This year, many East African celebrities have hit the headlines for all the wrong reasons. Not even the coronavirus could stop the scandals. Here are some of the dramatic yet memorable moments in the lives of your favourite celebrities DJ Mo's cheating scandal Disk Jockey Samuel Muraya aka DJ Mo was accused of cheating on his wife Linet 'Size 8' Munyali. This happened just days to their seventh anniversary, and the couple trended for days on Twitter. Later, Size 8 came out to announce that she had forgiven her husband. She spent three days praying and fasting for her marriage and for those relationships that were in trouble. “What has been said about my marriage has been said. Whether it is true or not, I don’t know. Only God knows the whole truth and we cannot reverse what has been said. I’ve been angry and sad handling things physically but that stage is over,” she said on Instagram. Mo, on the other hand, apologised to his wife. “There’s so much I can say. I will not run or hide. We’ve had our ups and downs. While reprehensible, the human me is beyond the battle, and I don’t think there can ever be a better moment to say I’m sorry and I love you. God chose me for you, I know I drive you crazy at times, but you know nothing good comes without its share of problems," he said. “Through the ups and down we have been together, you know I never back down from a challenge. This is no exception. I am blessed to call you my queen no matter how big the distraction seems. Together forever babe, let the world know you my one and only.” Since that scandal, the couple's reality show 'Dine With The Murayas' stopped airing on TV, and the DJ was also reported to have been fired from his gospel TV show. Shakilla's stunt Socialite Shakilla became famous after a viral Instagram Live with Xtian Dela. She pleasured herself with a remote and later listed the celebrities she has slept with. Among them, she claimed, was footballer Victor Wanyama, who sued her for defamation. She later apologised after saying several times she was not going to take back her words. "I would like to take this opportunity to apologise to Victor Wanyama and say sorry for the horrible things I said about him. I’ve never met Victor and neither has he paid me nor had sex with me. I was drunk at the time, foolish and excited being on X-tian’s live show,” she said. “I apologise to his family and I’m sorry for any pain I may have caused. I would like to take this opportunity to warn young people against the dangers of social media and the risk of being enticed into chasing fame.” Before that, rapper Khaligraph Jones had warned the socialite and demanded she apologise to him with immediate effect. "I am being forced to do this public apology cause I damaged Khaligraph Jones' public image by whatever I said yesterday due to influence of alcohol and reverse psychology. Papa Jones, i'm sorry," she wrote. Willy Paul was among the celebrities mentioned by the socialite. He shared a video alleging that Shakilla had trespassed into his house and he called police on her. “The estate security noticed a lady at my gate who was forcefully trying to enter my house (she did). They informed me immediately and I went only to find out that its the famous Shakilla. I immediately reported to the police and she was arrested for trespassing,” Willy Paul wrote. Shakilla said she was set up by the 'Njiwa' hitmaker, who had peacefully invited her to his house. Although she rose to fame in a scandalous manner, she has since attracted thousands of followers on social media. Diamond Platnumz and Tanasha Donna's break up Diamond and Tanasha called it quits early this year, months after giving birth to their son, Naseeb junior. The two had been together for about a year and a half. Tanasha cited infidelity by the singer, adding that he suddenly "lost interest in our relationship". Tanasha confirmed that at the time, the singer was not paying child support. “He is not supporting, I am doing it on my own and I don’t need his support, to be honest,” she told Jalas TV. The two are now on talking terms. Maureen Waititu and Frankie Kiarie Social media influencers and content creators Maureen Waititu and her baby daddy Frankie 'Just Gym It' Kiarie exposed their dirty linen in public. It started when Frankie, who is now dating Corazon Kwamboka, said he was not allowed to see his sons, thus, the reason he wished one of his children a happy birthday on social media. The mother of two took to YouTube to accuse Frankie of neglecting his kids. “He does not even know where we live, he has never bothered to know. It’s sad that he had to use a platform to wish my son a happy birthday and dragged my name into it, only for me to be trolled and attacked,” she said. "Putting long, beautiful posts on social media does not feed the kids. Even if you do not love me, at least respect your kids." She denied preventing Frankie from seeing his kids. "My lawyer contacted him through a letter for a roundtable mediation to come up with a structure and order on how to raise the kids, but he made it very clear he has no obligation to respond to that." Frankie, on the other hand, provided screenshots of a conversation with Maureen telling him he wasn't going to meet his sons. “It has been a year and four months since everything happened between me and her and I know I’m still gonna battle it until those boys are grown up because this is something I’m stuck with for the rest of my life, and I understand that.” Before their break-up, the ex-lovers had a common YouTube channel, where they shared their everyday life with their fans.