Martin (real name withheld), a 28-year-old man from Ngando ward, Dagoretti South, used to work as a waiter in a hotel in the area before it was closed down in April following a surge in Covid-19 cases. After a month without a job, he found himself in the company of jobless young men and soon found himself consuming illicit brews, smoking bang and even robbing residents. Bad company corrupts good morals, they say. The biblical verse could not be truer in the case of Martin. He became a drug addict, a sad state of affairs accelerated by depression due to a lack of income. He was in a group of five people living under one roof without a job. One day as he strolled around the neighbourhoods looking for a pint to cure his hangover, he got wind of the Kazi Mtaani programme. He was interested and sought to know more about it. He, therefore, moved to the area chief’s office for more information. He was lucky to be enrolled in the second recruitment of the programme after the piloting phase ended on July 30. That was the turning point in his life. He quit the 'bad boys' group. He could now earn, pay his rentals and sustain himself. For Martin, Kazi Mtaani has not just been an initiative that provides jobs to the suffering, it also offers hope to people on the verge of giving up in life. Like Martin, many Kenyans were caught unprepared when the coronavirus struck on March 13, 2020. The virus soon became calamitous for many families. In a span of one month, all the sectors of the economy were hurting. According to Labour CS Simon Chelugui, about 1.1 million Kenyans had lost their jobs by June. The economy was in a shambles as more Kenyans were rendered jobless. Companies bore the brunt of the virus, forcing them to turn to layoffs to reduce expenses. To arrest the worsening situation and rescue citizens, the government came up with stimulus measures. In April, the government announced an initiative targeting the most vulnerable. The State Department of Housing and Urban Development came up with the National Hygiene Programme popularly called Kazi Mtaani. It was launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta on April 25 and targeted the youth in slums in eight counties that had been worst hit by the virus. It was first rolled out in 28 slums in Kiambu, Nairobi, Mombasa, Kwale, Nakuru, Mandera, Kilifi and Kisumu. Many jobless youths were enrolled. This was meant to put money into their pockets and prevent them from engaging in criminal activities or wallowing in alcohol and substance abuse. To qualify, one has to be aged 18-35 and have a valid identity card. Consideration was given to other age-brackets where it was difficult to find youths willing to work. Earlier, the youth in Nairobi, Kisumu and Mombasa were earning a daily wage of Sh653, while workers from all other municipalities earned a daily wage of Sh600. The amounts were reduced to enable the enrolment of more youths. In this year's budget read on June 11, Treasury CS Ukur Yatani allocated Sh10 billion for the programme. President Kenyatta warned state officers against taking advantage of the funds set aside for the programme. He urged national government administration officers to ensure the money is used effectively. The head of state further pledged full support for the initiative aimed to cushion as many youths as possible from the financial fallout of Covid-19. And since then, the programme has been a game changer in the war on hunger and crime. Another beneficiary of the Kazi Mtaani programme was 25-year-old Maryann (not her real name). Before the contagion struck, she moved from one residential area to another washing clothes and doing general cleaning to earn something little to feed her family. But things turned for the worse after the outbreak of the virus. This meant the end of her work. The families she worked for no longer wanted outsiders to go to their houses for fear of contracting the virus. Maryanne suffered but the Kazi Mtaani soon came in handy. She could now earn money weekly to support her family—she still does. The programme has reduced crime and domestic violence in many places, including the Athi River and its environs. According to Housing and Urban Planning PS Charles Hinga, more than 270,000 youths are earning Sh455 daily and Sh505 for a supervisor for up to 11 days a month. Early this month, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i said the government was considering extending the programme, given its life-changing impact on thousands of youths. He was addressing a group of beneficiaries en route to Nairobi's Kasarani, where he commissioned the subcounty offices.  Edited by F'Orieny