Lugari MP Ayub Savula has accused Deputy President William Ruto of taking sugar cane farmers for a ride over the revival of troubled millers. The legislator on Tuesday termed as "child's play" Ruto's announcement that the national government was ready to surrender its shareholding in troubled Mumias and Nzoia sugar companies. Savula said Mumias Sugar Company was overly indebted and transferring government shares in its current state would not help revive the miller. The government holds 20 per cent shares of Mumias while Nzoia sugar is fully owned by the state. "It's like having arable land only to wait when it has flooded and turned into marshy land to tell your neighbour that you are leaving it to him when he can no longer use it," Savula said on the phone. During the burial of Matungu MP Justus Murunga in Mwikunda on Saturday, the DP said that the shares held by the government in Mumias and Nzoia sugar companies will be donated to the county governments of Kakamega and Bungoma. "You know that I have come here to Mumias many times and attempted to revive Mumias and you know where the efforts have reached," he said. The DP said county governments will be given a free hand to identify investors to revive the millers because agriculture is a fully devolved function. But Savula said the government should first assist Mumias restructure its debt portfolio and injecting money to return to profitability before offloading the shares to county governments. He said that transferring the shares to the county government would not help matters as they would cover the debts. The county government of Kakamega has been pushing the National Treasury to surrender its shares in Mumias to it to no avail. The company stopped crushing two years ago and is currently under receivership by the KCB group over huge debts. The revival of Mumias sugar has since stalled, two years after it shut down due to huge debts and inadequate raw material occasioned by cane poaching. Receiver manager PVR Rao said efforts to restart cane crushing have been curtailed by Covid-19. He said the spare parts the company ordered from Europe to fix the mills have not been delivered because of the pandemic. An earlier announcement by Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya that the county government would revive the factory has remained just that. This is despite the county government having spent Sh10 million on a task force to recommend the best way to revive the miller. The company is currently distilling ethanol using bagasse and molasses from neighbouring millers. The collapse of the giant miller occasioned the loss of thousands of jobs and income to families within and without the western region. This has in essence had adverse effects on the economies of western region counties where  cane farming supports over six million Kenyans directly and indirectly. Edited by A.N