A total of 271 pharmacies have been shut down by the Pharmacy and Poisons Board over failure to adhere to regulations in a crackdown that started in July. So far, the board has audited 1,224 pharmaceutical outlets and 49 county referral and subcounty hospitals. The data from the board shows Nairobi had the largest number after 81 pharmacy outlets were closed, followed by Coast and Lower Eastern regions with 71 outlets shut down . The inspection in Nyanza and Western regions has seen 62 pharmacies closed. Twenty one premises were closed in the Northeastern, 19 in the Rift Valley and 15 in the Central and Upper Eastern regions. “The Pharmacy Poisons Board has sustained inspections since July on all pharmaceutical outlets focusing on market surveillance to monitor the pharmaceutical regulatory compliance levels in line with July 2019 Good Distribution Practice guidelines,” Julius Kaluai, the acting head of Good Distribution Practice, said. Kaluai added that his team is also conducting GDP Audit on selected public health facilities and major public procuring agencies, an audit of Level 5, 4 and level 3 private hospitals. The six referral hospitals in the country — Kenyatta National Hospital, Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital, Othaya Annex, Kenyatta University Teaching and Referral Hospital, Mathari Mental and Referral Hospital and the National Spinal Injury Hospital — have been audited. “The details of the irregular pharmaceutical outlets which have been closed were shared with the other national administrative agencies for enforcement of closure and probable prosecutions,” Kaluai said. Other objectives of the exercise were to audit Kemsa and Mission for Essential Drugs Supplies warehouses as the major public and private pharmaceutical procurement entities as well as monitor if the Covid-19 prevention and control measures are being implemented in all pharmaceutical outlets. The board also carried out a crackdown on sub-standard alcohol-based hand sanitiser in the market.