Four youths have committed suicide in Kaloleni subcounty in the last five days, causing shock among leaders and residents. According to Kaloleni MP Paul Katana, the incidents all revolve around teenage love affairs and unwanted pregnancies. “The reports I have indicate this could be a societal problem that we must address as leaders. This kind of situation, losing four vibrant high school students to suicide in a week, is unprecedented,” said Katana on phone on Tuesday. The cases were reported in Makomboani, Mnazi Mmwega and Mtsengo areas of Kaloleni subcouty. However, Kaloleni deputy county commissioner Josephat Biwot said their records indicate only two suicide and one hit-and-run cases have been reported in the last five days. Biwot said Stella Konde, a 17-year-old Form Three student at Ngala Girls High School, committed suicide on Christmas eve. “It is a suspected love affair issue,” Biwot told the Star on phone. The DCC said Miriam Kahindi Kalama, a 25-year-old salonist based in Mombasa, clashed with her boyfriend before locking herself in the house and taking her own life. “She was a mother of two children and was expectant,” said Biwot. She committed suicide on Christmas Day. Chikale Harry Ruwa was hit by a vehicle along the Mariakani-Bamba road and died on the spot. The owner of the vehicle sped off. Katana called on religious, political and community leaders to start a conversation about depression and other cases that might push one to contemplate suicide. He said parents must not push their children away whenever they go wrong, a sentiment shared by Biwot. “Parents must learn to talk to their children even when they go wrong and children must learn to share their problems with their parents or close relatives, no matter the severity of the problem," the DCC said. He said in Konde’s case, the parents were too harsh on her after realising she was pregnant, pushing her to the extreme. Katana said early pregnancy, despite being a vice, should not lead to loss of life. “These are the things that scare us. The situation is scary. Parents have to sit down with their children and talk,” the legislator said. He blamed the long stay at home after schools were shut for the increased cases of teenage pregnancies. “The children have been at home for far too long without proper guidance and counselling. That has a price,” the MP said. Schools are now about to be opened and Katana said a national conversation about issues affecting teenagers and other youth must be discussed thoroughly. “Getting pregnant early is not right but there are ways to deal with it. Suicide was, is and will never be the right solution,” Katana said. He said without a candid conversation, there may be a deeper problem affecting the society and the youth in particular without it being known and addressed. “This is a new thing to us in Kaloleni. We have not experienced this,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori