Equity Bank has rolled out a tree planting programme targeting 35 million trees in the country as part of its 35th anniversary. The bank intends to plant 23,000 tree seedlings which are part of its corporate social responsibility programme in conserving the environment. Over the weekend bank officials together with national government officials and local community-based organisations planted 1,200 seedlings at the Malindi police station and the deputy county commissioner's office. Abdul Abubakar, Equity Bank Malindi branch manager, said they chose to plant the trees this time after experts revealed that there would be rain next week. He said they have partnered with different organisations, students and youth working under the Kazi Mtaani initiative to engage in the exercise. Abubakar said they will ensure the trees are well taken care of. “We have made plans with local youths including the Kazi Mtaani programme youth to take care of the trees‚”  he said. Thuo Ngugi commended the bank for the initiative saying it is in line with the government's policy of attaining 10 per cent forest cover in the country. He said the government is yet to achieve the 10 per cent forest cover and asked everybody with land to set aside part of it for planting trees. Ngugi urged other institutions to join hands and strive to plant more trees so as to make the vision a success. “We hope the Kazi Mtaani programme which is coming to an end this month shall be extended to January to allow the youth to take care of the trees‚” he said. Kazi Mtaani was initiated in July for six months and it will come to an end this December. He warned loggers and those burning charcoal illegally of serious action against them if found. Kilifi One Million Trees founder George Kombe said his organisation has created employment opportunities for youth through the seedlings they have for sale. “I urge the youth to embrace tree planting so as to help the government achieve the vision of attaining 10 per cent forest cover by 2022 in the country,” he said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris