With slightly under 240 days left before the start of the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games and over 1330 days to Paris 2024, the National Olympic Committee of Kenya is leaving nothing to chance. A noble initiative to extend Kenya’s medal glory to other sporting disciplines has had NOCK think out of the box hence a Sports Science High Performance Centre is  being envisaged as the game-changer for Kenya’s Olympic aspirations. Kenya first participated at the Olympic Games in 1956 Melbourne and has sent athletes to compete in every Summer Olympic Games since then, except the 1976 and 1980 games, which were boycotted. Kenya participated in the Winter Olympic Games in 1998, 2002, 2006 and 2018. What’s more, Kenyan athletes have savoured an impressive tally of 103 medals at the games. The most recent Olympics (Beijing 2008, London 2012 and Rio 2016) have been the country’s most successful, producing 42 medals between them. The highest number of gold medals is still six from both the 2008 and 2016 editions. Beijing was somewhat special in the sense that the country achieved its biggest medal tally of 16. Kenya will be attempting a record target of 17 with an unprecedented 7 gold medals. There is a noble initiative to extend the success story to other disciplines given that boxing and track/field are, by and large, the only disciplines to have won Kenya medals in the past summer games. “A lot of our young budding talent isn’t polished and cleaned in good time. What was extremely glaring during the tough Covid-19 pandemic period was the fact that there were no facilities where our athletes could go and train or be tested in terms of fitness level. We are having discussions with Kenyatta University, who have underscored the significance of this particular project, hence the need to move with speed. We are currently looking for land to accommodate the high performance centre,” said Nock Acting Secretary General Francis Mutuku during the recent Sports Journalists Association of Kenya workshop in Mombasa. Mutuku went on: “We are also in discussions with Ministry of Sports for possible allocation of land at Moi Stadium, Kasarani since there are other sports facilities in existence. Our Elite Team will take the lead in the conceptualisation. We shall engage sports scientists, strength and conditioning experts, nutritionists, physiotherapists and such personnel once it’s up and running. The essence is to adopt a modern way of scientific performance for athletes. Secondly, we have a strength and conditioning facility in mind. Thirdly, we will put up a rehabilitation centre, where in case an athlete is injured, we are able to get special emphasis from experts to work with the athlete.” Nock General Assembly saw members approve several ground-breaking issues that could change the sport in the country forever. “We had taken some time to hold the General Assembly due to the pandemic restrictions but finally we got the opportunity to meet out affiliates. We gave them a report on our activities which we have been involved in for the last 12 months since September last year. We also presented several proposals which required approval and direction on what needs to be done,” he added.  Brand Identity  “We have been working on our brand identity and presented a full picture of how we intend our visual brand to look like, which was approved. Most critical was recommendation, subject to IOC approval, to change our name from National Olympic Committee of Kenya to Olympic Kenya. This is in line with the global trend of getting names which can be commercialised and having brand recognition getting very strategic. We have made an application for the name change to IOC and I would like to imagine that within 30 days, we will have gotten an approval for our name change or further guidelines for that matter.”  New Secretariat “Another key issue was the ratification to move our offices from Plaza 2000 along Mombasa Road to Gallant Building effective January 1, 2021. The offices will be good in terms of functionality and will have more space to execute many other things that are critical in the development of sports. We are actually transitioning from a board-led organization to a management-oriented body, so there will be more offices for the staff than ever before.” “The new office will have a state-of-the-art library which will give visitors an opportunity to learn and see videos of great exploits of our Kenyan athletes. What’s more, we will have a gallery to enable us to celebrate our heritage of our sports performances. Once you come from the reception as you walk through to the offices, someone will be able to see images of the country’s sports history which will be a great way to celebrate our athletes.” Youth Development Centre The General Assembly also approved formation of a Youth Development Centre in the concept of Olympafrica. “Olympafrica is an IOC program which identifies a particular area where they can come up with a basic international level infrastructure for training and competition for youngters less than 17 years old. It’s supposed to be within a high populated area so that as many kids as possible can be able to get access.”   FACTFILE  WHAT WILL KENYA’S 2020 TOKYO OLYMPIC GAMES PREPARATIONS ENTAIL? . Athletes’ scholarships . Support to qualification events . General and personal equipment support 4. Online education and Clean Sport education 5. Enhancement of national programs through S&C 6. Strategic partnerships 7. International Camp-Kurume City Japan 8. Committees meetings 9. Standard operating manual (in place) 10. Accreditation (ongoing)  KENYA’S MEDAL TALLY BY SUMMER GAMES  Melbourne 1956 0 Rome 1960  0 Tokyo 1964  1 Mexico 1968  9 Munich 1972  9 Montreal 1976  (Did not participate) Moscow 1980  (Did not participate) Los Angeles 1984 3 Seoul 1988  9 Barcelona 1992  8 Atlanta 1996  8 Sydney 2000  7 Athens  2004 7 Beijing 2008 16 London 2012 13 Rio 2016  13 Total (103) Gold 31 Silver 38 Bronze 34