The ODM candidate for the December 15 Msambweni by-election Omar Boga is ahead of his competitors in the race for the parliamentary seat. A poll by Tifa has shows Boga is enjoying a 54 per cent lead with his closest rival Feisal Bader only managing 29 per cent support. The poll released on Thursday showed that 54 per cent of the constituents preferred Boga to become their next MP following the death of Suleiman Dori in March. Bader is running as an independent after Jubilee Party declined to sponsor a candidate for the election in favour of ODM. Deputy President William Ruto and his allies are backing Bader. At least 320 respondents were interviewed face-to-face in the poll conducted between November 29 and December 1 with a margin of error of 5.47 per cent. The survey shows 79 per cent of residents are unaware of the content of the BBI report. Only three per cent know what the report contains with another four per cent knowing at least something in the document. Some 14 per cent of residents said they know very little about the BBI initiative. At least 40 per cent of those interviewed said they would vote ‘NO’ to the proposed constitutional amendments while 23 per cent said they would vote ‘YES’. Twenty per cent of the respondents said they would not vote while 17 per cent were undecided on whether to back the BBI report or not. ODM was rated as the party of preference in the region at 48 per cent followed by Jubilee at 24 per cent. Wiper was rated at three per cent, same score as the Party of Economic Democracy. Boga also turned out to be the candidate most familiar with the voters at 46 per cent with Bader coming 10 points below at 36 per cent. Other candidates are Ali Hassan Mwakulonda (13 per cent), Marere Mwachai (three per cent) and Shee Mahmoud at two per cent. No one said they were familiar with contestant Khamis Liganje. At least 83 per cent of voters willing to vote for Raila Odinga in 2022 said they will give their ballots to Boga . Eleven per cent will support Bader while three per cent will vote for Mwakulonda. The poll says 29 per cent of Ruto's 2022 presidential bid supporters will vote for Boga with 44 per cent backing Bader. Another 19 per cent of the DP's supporters will vote for Mwakulonda. The voters said while Boga knows how to articulate his manifesto, he still falls behind Bader in development record. Bader has 48 per cent rating in performance compared with Boga’s 42 per cent. The independent candidate’s manifesto was rated at 31 per cent. Political familiarity, tribe, personal familiarity, political party and connectedness to a likely 2022 presidential candidate are shaping choices in the by-election, the survey shows. Msambweni voters are grappling with high unemployment, poverty, land issues, crime, lack of water, poor quality of education, lack of school fees, poor health services, drug abuse, environmental degradation, tribalism, poor infrastructure and diseases. Young people aged between 18 and 20 will not take part in the election since the IEBC has not conducted any registration since the 2017 elections. Even so, a number of voters have indicated they will not participate in the election citing fears of contracting Covid-19, violence and rigging. Those who fear Covid-19 were 19.3 per cent, violence (four per cent); the outcome may not make difference (43 per cent); rigging (7 per cent) while 42 per cent said they will be too busy to line up to vote.  Edited by P.O 