Massive discharges of patients were on Tuesday witnessed in Nyanza counties’ public hospitals as the health workers strike entered day two. This is after health workers unions’ officials advised relatives with patients in public hospitals to look for alternative facilities to transfer them because there will be no one to attend to them. Counties affected include Siaya, Kisumu, Kisii and Nyamira. Among the demands health workers want met include payments for all salary arrears, higher allowances and promotions. In Kisumu, the Kenya Union of Clinical Officers and Kenya National Union of Nurses officials in a joint statement said their demands must be met before they can return to work. “Our members are dying at a very high rate. It’s so frustrating and demoralising at this particular time of this pandemic and frontline workers have to go on strike yet the BBI drive is still on,” Kisumu branch KUCO secretary Crause Okumu said. At Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital, caregivers discharged hundreds of patients on Monday evening. The few doctors who were still on duty were no match for the huge number of patients at the health facility. Patients who were near recovery were taken home, while those who were critical were taken to private hospitals. Two critically ill children in the paediatric ward needed oxygen. They were discharged and referred to Christa Marriane Mission Hospital within the town. Their parents said they had to transfer them to save their lives. Patients who were waiting for surgery were also moved to private facilities. “I had come to check on my brother who is nursing a broken limb. We have been advised to get him out as there is no health staff to attend to him,” John Ombati from Kioge, Kitutu Chache South, said. At the casualty wing, only two health staff were manning the deserted room. They attended to patients with wounds. At Covid-19 isolation wards, patients waited in vain for medical attention. In the mental health wards, patients were unaware of the ongoings as nurses and clinicians stayed away. Some had been drenched as heavy rains continue to pound the region. At health facilities in the subcounties, similar scenes were witnessed. Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital boss Enock Ondari said they were still consulting. “I will brief you once we finish the meeting,” he told the Star. He had not done so by press time. Kisii Governor James Ongwae, who heads the human resource at the Council of Governors, was said to be at a meeting in Nairobi and did not pick up calls. At Siaya County Referral Hospital, nurses went on strike demanding comprehensive medical cover, the signing and finalising of the 2017 CBA, more nurses to be employed and all employees under contract to be absorbed on permanent and pensionable terms. Siaya branch nurses union secretary general Sylvester Nganda said they need a special facility to treat nurses infected by Covid-19. He urged residents to consider taking their patients to private hospitals as they will not resume duty until their demands are met. In Nyamira, caregivers at the county referral hospital were spotted on Monday trying to process the transfer of their relatives from the facility to private hospitals. Patients were transferred from the referral facility to private hospitals in the neighbouring Kisii county. Reporting by Faith Matete, Magati Obebo, Lameck Baraza and Alvine Ratemo