Public university chiefs want the government to only fund students pursuing science-based courses as business and arts scholars pay their way through college. The proposal would revive the parallel degree programmes that collapsed in 2016 and set the universities' finances on a downhill spiral. The self-sponsored classes collapsed when the government began to fund all Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education exams candidates who scored the entry grade of C+ and above. With the proposal, vice-chancellors could net slightly more than half the student population who will pay out of pocket. Data from the Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement Service shows about 45 per cent of candidates qualify for science-based courses. The current university population is slightly over 547,000, meaning about 280,000 would be self-sponsored after four years of implementation. If adopted, only science-based courses and those considered strategic to national aspirations will be funded by the government. The plan could lock out the majority of students who flood public universities to pursue arts and business courses from state funding. Details of this and other proposals are contained in documents submitted by the by Treasury officials and vice-chancellors to Parliament's Education Committee chaired by Florence Mutua. Diploma, certificate courses To shore up their finances, the university heads also seek funding for diploma and certificate courses. They want the government to fund the programmes either through loans or capitation to boost their capacity. The mandate for diploma and certificate training is largely reserved for middle level and technical and vocational colleges, many of which are run by the government. “Diploma and postgraduate students admitted into universities should be supported,” the document by the vice-chancellors' committee reads. The move could cause a rise in enrollment of students seeking to pursue diploma and certificate qualifications in universities. Taming private universities The vice-chancellors also want the decision to send students to private universities rescinded unless it is for courses they do not offer. Public university bosses claim their institutions continue to experience massive underfunding from the government and no more should be taken away. “It is considered that the funds that are going to private universities could be used to alleviate the funding problem currently experienced by the public universities,” the document reads. Under the new proposal, government-sponsored students can be admitted to the private institutions once the capacity in public universities is filled. “The policy of placing GoK sponsored students to private universities should be reviewed to take into account the idle capacity in programmes in public universities,” the document reads. Last year, universities declared a capacity of 145,000 against a total of just over 122,000 students who had qualified for government funding.  (edited by o. owino)