Two MPs have been feted by a US-based university for their humanitarian work in their constituencies. Breakthrough International Bible University awarded Ruiru MP Simon King’ara and his Mathioya counterpart Peter Kimari with honorary doctorate degrees in humanity. Also honored were Kirinyaga Deputy Governor Peter Ndambiri and a host of religious leaders in the event at a Ruiru hotel on Saturday. King’ara said he was recognized for the humanitarian work he has been doing for close to two decades through his Simon Ng’ang’a King’ara Foundation. He said he has been sponsoring education for students from destitute families, aiding the disabled with mobility devices and counseling, distributing food rations to poor families, rehabilitating street children and assisting youths initiate income generating activities. “I’m elated for the recognition of our work in helping solve some of the problems that our community is facing. This has served as a motivation for our foundation and we will strive to reach out and help as many people as we can,” he said. The MP noted that in 2016, his foundation started an ambitious programme of rehabilitating street children from Ruiru and Githurai towns and that so far, they have managed to rehabilitate over 200 street urchins. “We bought a one-acre piece of land in Kabati area in Murang’a county and started a poultry project for some 30 street kids. We started with 2,500 kienyeji chickens and the number has now grown to more than 10,000 chickens. We have also started rearing other animals like pigs and dairy cows,” he said. King’ara said the rehabilitated street children have been assisted to start their own ventures. “We are happy that some of those we rescued from the streets have even started their families. We aided them with funds and training on how to start income generating activities and they are now able to sustain their families,” King’ara said. The MP called on well-off Kenyans to emulate them and help the poor and the destitute in their community, saying their recognition is an indication that affluent Kenyans can end overreliance of foreign donors. Mathioya MP Peter Kimari echoed King’ara’s sentiments challenging rich Kenyans to help the poor in society. “There’s always a reward from God for serving humanity,” Kimari said. The ceremony also saw over 200 clerics awarded diplomas and degrees in diverse disciplines.