A presidential aspirant hoping to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) was dismayed after his invitation to host media honchos flopped. The party leader was left red-faced after the scribes gave his gesture the cold shoulder even after his persistent follow-ups failed to persuade them to join the induction party. The politician got a reality check on his dwindling political gravitas when a leading media house only sent an intern to get a glimpse of what the meeting was all about. The party boss has been on the spot for squandering media opportunities at national functions by being general and rambling without a point-by-point narrative. ** It appears a shock win by some nondescript parties in the just concluded Members of County Assemblies by-elections has complicated plans for a team of strategists who assumed they had the correct political pulse on the ground. The decisive win by political minnows has taken the strategists back to the drawing board with the financiers accusing them of paying lip service to the glaring developments that have been eating away their support bases. It remains to be seen whether they will up their game in the upcoming polls and thwart a potential double jeopardy. ** A Nairobi businessman is distraught after a high-flying state officer took his rival out on a holiday to the United Arab Emirates. The man in the not-so-usual relationship is bitter that he has been dumped by the state official who has been leading key government institutions for years. The jilted lover from a minority community has been complaining to close associates how much he invested in the relationship only to be dumped when it was too close to call. Corridors of Power is apprised that the man may be on a revenge mission hence likely to come out of the closet with names of the bigwigs in the club. ** The battle for the control of the lucrative Finance docket in a county in Nyanza whose governor is serving a second term is turning out to be a "money" affair. The office holder, who is the governor's right hand man, is said to have collected millions of shillings from county contractors as a war chest to overcome some obstacle. The money was given  with a promise to fast track payments for contractors after overcoming the challenge. There are however murmurs among county staff that the  official does not hold the requisite academic qualifications for the demanding position but could be operating on fake papers if indeed he presented any.