The Nairobi Metropolitan Service will complete works on and commission 24 hospitals in informal settlements with a bed capacity of 280 by February next year. President Uhuru Kenyatta said during the Jamhuri Day celebrations on Saturday that the project to cost Sh2 billion was part of his plan to deliver health services to the poorest in the country. “I note with satisfaction that NMS is on course to deliver the facilities by end of January 2021. The idea is to take health services as close to the people as is possible,” he said. Uhuru said that he learnt during an inspection visit to Mukuru kwa Reuben in July that 500,000 people there were being served by a private hospital with eight maternity beds. “A woman giving birth in this facility cannot be admitted for more than two hours. In fact, after giving birth, she has to get out in one or two hours in order to give way for other patients,” he said. “The only time she can stay for a day is if she has complications and cannot be transferred immediately to a better facility. If this is not the poverty of dignity, what is it?” After the visit to Mukuru Uhuru instructed NMS director-general Mohammed Badi to build 24 level 2 and 3 hospitals in the informal settlements. The health facilities are in Viwandani, Majengo, Mathare, Kayole Soweto, Korogocho, Kawangware, Gitare Marigu, Mukuru kwa Njenga, Mukuru kwa Rueben, Kibra and Githurai. NMS director of health services Dr Josephine Mbae said in November that 19 out of the 24 health facilities would be built from scratch while the rest would be rehabilitated. “Ten out of the facilities to be built entirely will be level 2 hospitals and the rest will be level 3,” she said. Level 2 facilities are dispensaries run by clinical officers offering outpatient, VCT, tuberculosis, laboratory, antenatal and postnatal services, curative treatment and issuance of referral letters to other facilities. Level 3 facilities are referred to as health centres and are run by at least one doctor, clinical officers and nurses. Services offered include curative, laboratory, antenatal and postnatal, maternity in-patient services, dental, pharmacy, TB clinics, diabetes and hypertension clinics and also the issuance of referral letters to other facilities. Dr Mbae said the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority will be contracted to supply drugs to the facilities. “More drugs will be procured as required once the facilities are done,” she said. Badi had put the construction of the facilities as part of the targets his administration had sought to achieve in 100 days from July. But a lack of funds from the stalemate of the Sh37.5 billion Nairobi county budget had set the plans back. NMS had been allocated Sh27.1 billion, with the Health sector receiving the lion’s share of Sh8.1 billion. 