Forty senior staff members at Moi University are battling to save their land and posh retirement homes on 52 disputed acres in Kisumu. A bank wants to auction the land because of a Sh20 million loan extended to three directors of the buying company formed by the dons. They defaulted on the loan. The Moi employees say the total value of land and property is Sh500 million. The more than 40 staff include professors, lecturers and members of management. The Kibos, Kisumu, land case is in court in Eldoret. Sidian Bank has threatened to auction the land over money allegedly lent to the Kisony Welfare Group nine years ago, through three directors. The dons came together through the group to buy the land to put up retirement homes. The bank advanced them Sh10 million to pay for the land. However, three directors of the group in 2013 obtained a Sh20 million loan from Sidian Bank, using the land as collateral, without approval from the bank and other members of the group. The three are employed by Moi University. Early this year, the dons who already have built posh homes on the land, were shocked when auctioneers said they would sell the land to recover the Sh20 million loan. The top dons now are witnesses in a case in which they claim they were conned by the three directors. The three include a security guard, a lab technician and a lecturer. The dons have obtained court orders stopping the auction of their land and homes. Two conflicting land valuation reports have been made. One by the bank indicates the land is valued at Sh30 million. Another, independent valuation says the land alone is worth Sh130 million. According to court documents, the bank valuation report indicated the land was bare but the dons have already set up expensive homes they would lose at auction. Eldoret High Court judge Olga Sewe issued an injunction on October 23 against sale, alienation or appointing a receiver pending court directions. She stopped the bank and Keysan Auctioneers from selling the property. The bank's lawyers said it had carried out due diligence and the land was used as security for the Sh20 million loan. Security guard John Olilo, lab technician Henry Ganda and lecturer Duncan Yogo have been charged with defrauding the Moi varsity dons. On Monday, the trio denied three counts of fraud before Eldoret chief magistrate Linus Kassan. They each were released on Sh200,000 bond. Olilo, Ganda and Yogo are accused of fraudulently obtaining a Sh20 million loan from a commercial bank. They are accused of saying the land in Kibos, Kisumu county, belongs to the Kisony Welfare Group Limited. That's the company the accused and the plaintiffs had jointly registered and used to purchase the land in 2012, the court was told. They are accused of conspiracy to defraud, obtaining money by false pretences and theft by directors. The court was told the accused defaulted on the loan, prompting the bank to attach the 52 acres to recover the loan and interest. The prosecution said it plans to call eight witnesses. They include three professors and five doctorate lecturers who have taught at Moi University and other institutions for decades. Kassan also heard the accused took the loan without the consent of the landowners barely a year after the purchase. The court was told: “On September 24, 2013, ….you obtained (from a bank) Sh20 million which was deposited in account number (withheld) account name Kisony Welfare Group limited by falsely charging title deed parcel North East of Kibos trading centre L.R. 7536 with the said bank as security for the loan which you pretended to be a property of Kisony Welfare Group without the consent and mandate of the landowners, a fact you knew to be false." Alternatively, the three are accused, as directors of the Kisony Welfare Group Limited, of stealing Sh20 million that belonged to Kisony. The trial is set for February 4 next year. (Edited by V. Graham)