Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong has told striking health workers to serve the public or search for well-paying jobs elsewhere. Ojaamong said health workers are called to serve the public wholeheartedly, and the strike was ill-timed as the country battles the Covid-19 pandemic. He urged Busia health workers to reconsider their hardline stand and return to work. “For me, I don’t hide my words. It is telling people the truth that enabled me to get elected four times. If a salary increment will be effected and the national government sends money to counties, it's’ okay, I will pay you,” he said. “But for those who are not ready to work with us, there is also an option. Instead of striking, if you have seen there is a job with a lot of money somewhere, we shall not block you from going there. In fact we shall organise a farewell party for you. Holding the whole population at ransom is not something we shall be happy about.” Ojaamong spoke after commissioning the 33-bed capacity male ward at the Kocholya Level 4 Hospital in Teso North subcounty on Friday. He said health is a critical component of life that no one should ignore. Health workers in Busia joined their colleagues in other counties in a nationwide strike last week. The health workers demand salary and allowances increment and full personal protective equipment for safety from Covid-19 infection. They also want the families of all health workers who have died due to Covid-19 to be compensated. They have vowed to remain out of work until their demands are met. But Ojaamong said the workers should have allowed for negotiations before downing their tools. “We will continue engaging you. However, if it reaches a point where we will not agree, we will close hospitals,” Ojaamong said. He said the demand by health workers to receive a risk allowance of Sh30,000 will cost the county at least Sh3 billion annually. "We shall resort to God to take care of everybody considering that the strike might take long," he said. "For the workers who are willing to resume duty, we shall always talk because nobody is prepared to risk his life." 