As the battle lines are being drawn for the by-election in Matungu constituency slated for March 4, 2021, Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala has asked the ODM Party leader Raila Odinga to dare not field a candidate for the forthcoming by-election in Matungu constituency, Kakamega County. Speaking on Wednesday in the company of the Amani National Congress candidate Peter Oscar Nabulindo at the Kakamega branch ANC offices, Malala stated that if Raila fields an ODM candidate, he will be disrespecting and demeaning the people who have supported him for a long time. “I want to speak to the ODM fraternity, as the deputy minority leader in the senate, my leader in the Nasa coalition is Raila Amolo Odinga. I would like to address him and remind him that in 2007 Musalia Mudavadi shelved his presidential ambitions in Cord coalition for your sake. "In 2017 he did the same thing and had you become the Nasa flag bearer and we value you as our Nasa coalition leader," Malala said. He added, "As ANC we have lost a seat and our member who was also the MP for Matungu, we are mourning painfully and it will be too bad that when your Brother is mourning you come into his home and take the little that he left behind meant for the widow. "I want to ask ODM that if you really value the relationship between the Luhyas and the Luos, I’m pleading with you, Kindly don’t field a candidate in Matungu,” Malala reiterated The legislator also demystified allegations that the ANC party was divided over the candidate the party has endorsed to run for the Matungu seat saying as a party they settled on Nabulindo because of his qualification and the ability to deliver for the party. “As a party, we are in one accord that all of us including those from the youth league, Women league, and the mainstream are in support of Peter Oscar Nabulindo and so there are no cracks in the party over our candidate.” Malala stated. Matungu Constituency Member of Parliament seat fell vacant following the death of Justus Murungu, who died at the St Mary’s Mission Hospital in Mumias in Mid November this year after battling diabetes for some time.