Pep Guardiola believes this season’s Premier League title race will be more open than in previous campaigns. Raheem Sterling’s close-range finish and a Kevin de Bruyne penalty against Fulham made it back-to-back wins for City, who were vastly superior to their opponent but also wasteful in front of goal. “In my first season, Chelsea dominated and the next three were us and Liverpool, we controlled the league. “But Leicester came here and scored five goals and then this week lost against Fulham, who we’ve just beaten. It is like how the Premier League was, everyone can beat everyone. “The important thing is to be in there. In this month, it was important to focus on qualification in the Champions League and now we focus on the Premier League. It will be a long, long season for all the clubs.” City ensured their progress to the Champions League last 16 with two group games to spare, meaning they could rest players for the 0-0 draw in Porto that preceded Saturday’s win. Guardiola’s side recorded their now annual 5-0 home win over Burnley last weekend and were similarly dominant, albeit a bit wasteful against the Cottagers. Sterling and De Bruyne laid the platform for the win, with the latter setting up the former to slot in the opening goal. The roles were then reversed with the England winger tripped in the box by Joachim Andersen to allow the Belgian midfielder to score from the penalty spot. The pair could easily have had another four goals between them but Fulham goalkeeper Alphonse Areola made a string of good saves, while De Bruyne also struck the bar with a shot. It is the first time this campaign that City have won back-to-back league matches and it lifts them to a spot in the table more in keeping of a side with title aspirations. Fulham spent most of the game repelling attacks, but at least tried to ask questions of the home side, as they did to far greater effect at Leicester on Monday. An eighth defeat of the season means the Cottagers remain 17th in the table, one point better off than West Brom and Burnley, both of whom have played a game less.