The one way 20-24 minute express way to Jomo Kenyatta International Airport from the Central Railway Station will cost you Sh500 but save you hours of frustration in traffic jam. Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia said on Monday the JKIA express  is aimed at easing travel for air travellers who always risk missing their flights due to gridlocks on Mombasa and Outerring roads and airport workers. "I believe the JKIA route will be a major benefit to our travellers heading into and outside the country," Macharia said while commissioning the express route. The CS said Airport South Road had been specifically set aside for the BRT buses heading to JKIA. He said adequate security had been installed to ensure the smooth operation of the railway from the city to the airport. "Connecting airport to CBD means the security must be intact. We inspected the stations to make sure the system  is compliant with the highest level of security," Macharia said. The JKIA express way is an extension of the Nairobi Commuter Rail Service targeting air travellers and airport users. It is anticipated that over 24,000 passengers, workers and other airport users  will use it after its launch. The CS disclosed that between 50,000 and 60,000 passengers use the commuter rail service daily since its launch last month. The previous daily train passenger traffic was 14,000. "This year we have seen good deeds done in order to restore the railway system to shape. It has taken more than 100 years to upgrade our system," he said. Kenya Railways managing director Philip Mainga said there will be Diesel Multiple Units trains leaving the Central Railway Station to JKIA daily between  5.45am and 9.00pm. "The time schedule will be released soon for those willing to use the express DMUs to Embakasi station. But the inter-trains have an hourly schedule which was released last month," he said. The BRT buses will have a capacity of 52-80 sitting and standing passengers. "Customers of the JKIA express service will enjoy the use of the Airport South Road. They will be picked and dropped off at the cargo area and the JKIA central square," Mainga said. Routine air passengers will have the option of going to JKIA via the commuter rail which is one way to Embakasi station and inter-station train which stops at Makadara and Pipeline before heading to Embakasi. The Sh500 fare will be paid at the CRS and will be inclusive of BRT fare. On arrival at Embakasi, the air passengers will undergo security check to access the BRT buses headed to JKIA. On arrival at the airport, passengers will undergo another security check. KR has acquired 11 DMUs. Five are already in Nairobi and operational with the rest expected by end of next month. The commuter rail is part of the master plan of an integrated commuter system within the city and its environs. Besides the BRT, its other components will be monorail and underground rail. The project has been touted as a game changer in the reduction of both vehicular and human traffic jams in the city. It has cost the government Sh6.6 billion to upgrade the commuter service in Nairobi Metropolitan region, inclusive of non-motorised transport,  integrated and modern ticketing systems and investments in access roads. The NCR was introduced in May 1992 in response to a series of strikes by the matatu operators. But over the years, there has been a low level of demand due to poor standards of railway stations and facilities.