National Assembly’s Special Funds Account Committee wants the DCI and the EACC to investigate three NG-CDF projects in Ganze. The committee led by Endebess MP Robert Pukose made the call on Monday after visiting the three projects undertaken in the 2014-15 financial year. The first project was the construction of the Petanguo dam, which was allegedly given a double allocation from the NG-CDF and the Equalization Fund. The NG-CDF allocated it Sh4 million, while the Equalization Fund set aside Sh10 million for the same project, the MPs said. “In the books, this project is reported to be in use but the situation on the ground is different. We want the government agencies to investigate why this project received a double allocation and there is no value for money,”Pukose said. Other members of the committee who visited the site were Marwa Kemero (Kuria East) and Justus Gesito Mugali,(Shinyalu). After Petangua dam, the committee visited Bamba police station where according to the NG-CDF records, a five-classroom project was put up at the station. However, the MPs established that the NG-CDF did an extension of an office and two cells at the station. At the Majajani dam, done at a cost of Sh5 million, the committee was shocked to learn that the earth dam does not collect water and there is no fencing as per the records. “At the location where they purport to have dug the dam, there is no water and even the fence. According to the records, the project is 100 per cent complete and the contractor was also paid Sh196, 000 for fencing. The DCI and the EACC should intervene and investigate these projects,” Pukose said. While defending the projects, former Ganze NG-CDF manager Juma Budugu said the Petanguo dam was done and it was functional but wondered how other funds were put on a project already in use. “The Equalization Fund should have clearly indicated that they were expanding the project but instead they said they are doing the project,” Budugu said. Budugu clashed with the chairman of the project management committee named Francis on the exact location where NG-CDF did the project. Budugu said they did an extension of the Bamba police station but did not build the five classrooms at the police station as indicated in the records. “Maybe it was a problem of naming. We did the office extension and the cells,” he said. He was, however, at pains to explain the state of the Majajani dam. “I found this project had already been planned for and I do not have much details though it was done during my time,” Budugu said. In an interesting twist, Ganze MP Teddy Mwambire said the NG-CDF did the project in Kilifi North and not in his constituency. “Majajani is not in Ganze but it is in Kilifi North. The committee was taken to another dam which is at the boundary of Ganze and Kilifi North but the actual Majajani dam is in Majajani and it has a fence,” Mwambire said. An administrator in the area confirmed the Majajani dam in Kilifi North was dug using funds from the Ganze NG-CDF kitty. “The project was taken to Kilifi North after the committee failed to get an appropriate location in Ganze,” the administrator said in confidence. Former Ganze MP Peter Shehe accused Mwambire of witch-hunt.