Kenyan international Annette Kundu has urged the current crop of  Eldoret Falcons goalkeepers to show high level of commitment and discipline if they hope to emulate her at the club. The Kenya Women Premier League side went on a signing spree in the just concluded transfer window, where they roped in Agnes Mbone, Rasoa Mpayia and Belinda Nalianya to beef up the goalkeeping department. Coach Joshua Ariko handed Mbone a starting berth in their new season opening encounter against Trans-Nzoia Falcons, where she lived up to the billing with impressive saves, despite their 0-2 loss. Kundu,23, who played for Falcons in the 2019 season, cemented her position as Harambee Starlets first choice keeper and defied all odds to win the Confederation for East and Central Africa Football Association Cecafa women championship in Tanzania, December last year. Kundu did not concede a single goal in the tournament. Her performance landed her a stint with Cyprus top tier side Lakatamia FC before she made a move to Ael Limassol. The golden glove winner has kept four clean sheets and saved two penalties to date. Kundu who has expressed gratitude to Falcons for giving her the opportunity to prove herself, said players need to overcome all challenges and work for the common goal of the team. She said they should have confidence in their abilities and should minimise mistakes, adding that goalkeepers do make blunders but not often. "Goalkeepers need to be disciplined, smart and hardworking. Challenges are enevitable. So they should not opt out of the team because of financial problems or discouragement. They need to stick together and should not be afraid to make mistakes since they will learn from them," said Kundu. She said there's no shortcut to success. "Loving what you do and taking instructions can be a step in the right direction," she added. "Take goalkeeping like your everything. Respect your trainer irrespective of who he or she is. Even if you have conceded a goal tell yourself you are the best and target improvement." She says she is satisfied with the role she has played so far at her new club. "If I was to grade myself,I would say excellent because I have bailed out the team from losing positions on several occasions. Last Sunday, I sacrificed for the team to get a draw and maintain our top five status." With her contract running out in May next year, Kundu is hopeful her future will be sorted at the end of the season.