Agriculture CS Peter Munya has declared interest in reclaiming the Meru governorship in 2022 from Governor Kiraitu Murungi. Munya scoffed at Governor Kiraitu, saying many residents are opposed to the Building Bridges Initiative in Meru because they have little to be proud of in terms of development in the villages. Munya said Kiraitu had abandoned most of the uncompleted projects he initiated as the first Meru governor. “I urge you to support BBI because it will allocate more funds to the counties, from 15 per cent to 35 per cent. This means more development. I know some of you may be annoyed because no tangible development has been done since 2017,” Munya said. Munya said when he gets the seat back, he will prudently utilise the money through water projects, upgrading roods, school infrastructure and bursary allocation, among other initiatives. “God willing, I will revive all the projects I had initiated but were forgotten by Kiraitu’s regime,” Munya said during the burial of his agriculture technical adviser Samuel Mung’athia. The CS called on MCAs to support BBI, saying it will empower them through the proposed Ward Development Fund. “Even if a governor hates a region, and I don’t mean the current does so, you must get development in your villages,” Munya said. Munya said Kiraitu’s administration has turned into theatrics over failure to channel development equally in the county. “They (county officers) should stop hoodwinking you with their usual tricks of implanting a placenta on the bull’s buttocks and claim it has given birth,” Munya said. He said despite the national government bringing money to the county, residents have little to be proud of. “Some boreholes were sunk in Meru through my own efforts. I lobbied KCC through community social responsibility and pleaded with them to drill two boreholes to supply water at Antuanduru in Karama and the other one at Mbaranga. Not ministry’s funds,” he said. Munya said CSs no longer control or have power over projects. “For now, I do not have county budget like before. At the Agriculture ministry, we do not do direct projects at the counties. It is a devolved function and so resources are released to counties. We are in charge of policy,” he said.