President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga face a fresh headache over referendum timelines. Their push to amend the Constitution faces hurdles, with lack of funds likely to slow down Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission activities, including the confirmation of signatures. The Treasury revealed it could release signature verification money to the IEBC by Friday. This emerged even as the electoral agency protested about the Building Bridges Initiative over the predetermined 70 new constituencies in the constitutional amendment bill. The commission accused politicians of usurping its constitutional mandate to review electoral boundaries. On November 2, Uhuru and Raila unveiled a roadmap for the plebiscite that will see the country vote on the proposed constitutional changes. “The distribution of the constituencies is essentially the mandate of the commission, but now they have gone ahead to do our job and have come up with already predetermined seats,” IEBC commissioner Abdi Guliye lamented. His remarks faulted Uhuru and Raila who have struck a deal on the sharing of the extra constituencies. The constituencies were also seen as political bait to appease segments of the populace whose support is crucial to the success of the referendum. Guliye's reaction, therefore, lifted the lid on the simmering disquiet within the IEBC over sustained efforts by the political class to undermine its functions. “This is another complication that has sadly come our way,” Guliye told the Star in a phone interview. The commissioner said if the boundaries are not reviewed by August next year as required under the law, then the Constitution provides that the proposed constituencies will not apply in the 2022 general election. The constituencies must be approved in a national referendum for them to become operational. The commission has asked the Treasury for Sh241 million for successful verification of at least 1 million of the 4.4 million signatures submitted by the BBI secretariat. Yesterday, Guliye said the verification period would depend on the availability of cash from the Treasury. “If we get enough money, then we will hire more clerks and complete the work much faster. It will depend on the money we will get,” Guliye said, adding that the commission can deliver all its key activities, including the 2022 polls, efficiently if sufficiently resourced. Hussein Marjan, the IEBC chief executive officer, had said they need some 84 days to complete the verification. Yesterday, IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati told the Star they will meet Treasury officials today to discuss details of their budget. “The pace of verification will depend on what will be provided. If we get more money, we will hire more clerks. We can only speak of how long the verification will take after knowing the available budget,” Chebukati said. The process is seen as the most critical step to jump-start the referendum, although there are concerns that if the exercise is slowed down, then that would interfere with the timelines. Uhuru and Raila have maintained that a referendum is necessary before 2022, but the packed programme of activities might present a nightmare for their push. Uhuru last Saturday urged Kenyans to seize "the constitutional moment" to review the Constitution. A popular initiative to amend the supreme law, like the proposed Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020, must be supported by at least one million Kenyan registered voters for a referendum to take place. This means the earliest the IEBC can submit the referendum bill to the 47 county assemblies for action would be mid-March next year. The next general election will be held in August 2022. The Constitution gives the assemblies three months to deliberate on the bill before it is subjected to a referendum if approved by at least 24 assemblies irrespective of the outcome in Parliament. There are fears that some county assemblies, especially those opposed to the referendum, could sit on the bill up to the last minute, further leaving the programme in a shambles. If the assemblies were to take three months to conclude debate on the bill, then the IEBC can get the approval of the President to conduct a referendum in June next year at the earliest. In 2010, the Interim Independent Electoral Commission—the precursor of the IEBC—conducted a referendum on August 4 after Parliament approved a constitutional amendment bill on April 1. In light of these, politicians and pundits have argued that it would be unlikely for the country to have a referendum by June, implement the law, and still hold a general election in August 2022. Yesterday, National Assembly Constitution Implementation Oversight Committee chairman Jeremiah Kioni told the Star that the IEBC has the capacity to deliver on all its mandate if well facilitated. “In my view, the commission does not even need any sweeping reforms to conduct either the referendum, the boundaries review or the 2022 general election; all that is needed are enough personnel and funds,” he said. The Ndaragwa MP said the new 70 constituencies may be exempted from the constitutional requirement that they will only apply in 2022 if the delimitation is done before August next year.