Huawei Technologies Kenya has confirmed plans to enhance its projects service delivery capacity in collaboration with local partners. This is part of the telecom's plan on investing incapability development programmes for its service providers to guarantee cost-effective projects implementation. According to Huawei Southern Africa region Procurement Qualification Department Director, Ivan Zhu, the firm, in conjunction with its local subcontractors, will continue pursuing quality service and projects delivery. Speaking at the firm’s recent annual Supplier Conference and Award Forum, Huawei Kenya Delivery and Service Vice President, Chris Yu said the firm had activated its Delivery Operations Centre in Nairobi to provide projects delivery oversight and support for its sub-contractors. The Delivery Operations Centre, he said provides Contact Centre support to field contractors linked on the recently introduced Smart Helmets. He said will also access basic and advanced Huawei Certified Training delivered at the African Advanced Level Telecommunications Institute(AFRALTI). AFRALTI is a Huawei Authorized Learning Partner (HALP) with a mandate to provide Huawei’s certification training programs authorized, supervised and managed by Huawei. Under this arrangement, AFRALTI offers Huawei certification programmes in the field of data communication. "In 2020, Huawei invested in building a hands-on training centre for all ICT scenarios, providing more training opportunities for ICT industry technicians. This helps them mitigate risks and improve business efficiency,” Ivan Zhu said. "Huawei encourages all our partners to adopt best industry practices and entrench sustainability in their business strategies. This allows them to mitigate risks and, thereby, enhance efficiency within their operations." At the Conference featuring more than 44 local suppliers, Huawei showcased advanced industry solutions and cooperation policies such as 5G, cloud, and enterprise services. "Ensuring the wellbeing of our employees, both directly and indirectly, as well as those of our partners, are some of Huawei’s key focus aspects underpinned by mutual adherence to policies such as compliance to the Business Conduct Guidelines, Quality and EHS Management, Cyber security, User Privacy Protection,” Chris Yu noted At the conference.