Beneficiaries of the 1,370 houses at the Park Road in Ngara under the affordable housing programme will receive their houses this month. Housing Secretary Patrick Bucha said the houses are ready for handedover. “Keys will be handed over to the owners. It delayed a bit because of the festive season,” Bucha told the Star on phone on Wednesday. Park Road is the first complete development promoted by the government under the affordable housing programme. It consists of 1,370 units on 7.9 acres. Applicants were required to commit how they will pay for the houses - cash or mortgage - after depositing 12.5 per cent worth of the unit of their choice. One-bedroom units are on offer at Sh1 million each, two-bedroom at Sh2 million and three-bedroom at Sh3 million. The completion of the Park Road project paves the way for phase two of the project which will be located at Starehe, Shauri Moyo, in Nairobi and Athi River. The government intends to construct 500, 000 affordable housing units by 2022 to curb shortages. The housing deficit in Kenya stands at two million and continues to grow at a rate of about 200,000 units a year, according to UN-Habitat. National Housing Cooperation managing director Andrew Saisi has already assured the public of open policy while allocating the houses. "Our work is to ensure that all those who put in an application and are eligible will get what they deserve," he said. The housing units will be allocated to qualified applicants through a comprehensive and fair process. Applicants are expected to register on Boma Yangu online platform portal, be Kenyan citizens with proven ability to buy via a transparent and accountable process. Only people earning less than Sh150, 000 can apply for the houses at Park Road through the Boma Yangu Portal. As of December 4,   310,370 people had registered with the Boma Yangu platform, contributing Sh463 million towards the AHP. The criteria for the allocation of Park Road project units is 60 per cent civil servants and 40 per cent other citizens. Homeowners will be expected to live in their houses and will not be allowed to sell before the lapse of eight years to avoid speculation on these units. The affordable housing programme is intended to address the housing needs of the following income brackets: social (up to Sh19, 999), low cost (Sh 20, 000 - Sh 49, 999) and mortgage (Sh50, 000 - Sh 149, 999). The affordable houses will be financed and built by private developers on private, national and county government land. Once the houses are built, the Housing Fund will purchase the units from the private developers and offer them to its members. The main role of the government is primarily that of a facilitator, that is creating an enabling environment for a private sector-led solution that will ensure that the ambitious and capital-intensive programme becomes a reality. This will be done through several interventions such as provision of state-owned land, delivery of bulk infrastructure to the sites where the housing units are earmarked for development; including access roads and transportation network, power, water and sewerage. The Housing Fund is established under the Housing Act with the aim of delivering affordable housing to Kenyans. The fund plays a critical role in overcoming the inefficiencies in the housing sector that have led to the housing deficit in the country. This will entail interventions addressing challenges faced from both the supply and demand side of the sector. The Housing Fund will mobilize capital in order to achieve its objectives. It will be financed by statutory contributions from employees and employers as provided for by the recent amendments to the Employment Act as well as voluntary contributions from potential homeowners. The statutory contributions to the Fund are estimated at Sh55 billion in the first year.