Gor Mahia are once again seeking the services of Posta Rangers coach Sammy 'Pamzo' Omollo when they tackle Belouizdad of Algeria in the first round of the CAF Champions League later this month. Pamzo led the Kenyan champions past Rwanda's APR in the preliminary round, winning 4-3 on aggregate while the North Africans knocked out Al Nasr of Libya with a 4-0 aggregate score after winning both legs 2-0. The first leg is set for Algiers on December 22/23  with the return leg scheduled for Nairobi on January 5/6. And having watched Pamzo guide K'Ogalo past the first hurdle, Gor Mahia chairman Ambrose Rachier said he will engage his Rangers counterpart John Tonui to allow the former international defender to take charge as they seek a permanent solution. The Kenyan champions were forced to lease Pamzo's services after CAF barred their Brazilian coach, Roberto Oliveira, from sitting on the bench on qualification grounds. Rachier admitted that Pamzo had punched above his weight and expressed optimism that the mailmen will give him the green light to lead the 'Green Army' in pursuing a place in the group stages. "Since Oliveira's papers may take time to be ratified, we aim to engage Rangers to allow Pamzo to lead the team against the Algerian club. We had their permission in our last assignment against APR and I was impressed with the way he handled the team," he said. However, Pamzo was mean with words on this latest proposal, saying that the negotiations were between the two clubs in the first place and he expects the same to happen this time around. "You know I have a contract with Posta and it would be unfair to comment on the going-ons," said Pamzo. "I will just wait for the decision the clubs will make on my role going forward." Meanwhile, Rachier said the team is ready to play their first 2020/21 Kenyan Premier League match against Ulinzi Stars despite their tough stand on the broadcast deal between FKF and StarTimes. Gor and the trio of Zoo FC, Mathare United and Ulinzi are yet to kick off the season due to their opposition to the deal and consequently, the federation pushed forward their opening matches to allow for further negotiations. Rachier insists that his office is okay with the arrangement and running of the league but maintained that the club had not formally endorsed the deal contrary to the federation who considers the endorsement letter from 'suspended' secretary general Samuel Ochola, genuine. "We are ready for the league matches. I am happy with the way the competition is being run but I have a problem with the StarTimes deal. They do not have a right to broadcast our matches. The club disowned the endorsement letter from the suspended secretary general and is ready to negotiate with StarTimes independently," he added.