The Senate impeachment proceedings against Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko were reduced to a shouting match as the county boss fought off the allegations levelled against him. Sonko and county assembly lawyer Ndegwa Njiru lit up the hearing as they engaged in exchanges during cross-examination, triggering the intervention of Speaker Kenneth Lusaka. At some point, Sonko switched on his phone’s spotlight to illuminate a document so he could read it, sending the senators into a frenzy. "Read the next column,” Njiru told the governor. "I will not read the next column. I have not answered your question,” Sonko responded in the middle of the heated exchanges. For six hours, Sonko put up a spirited defence against the allegations and trashed them as political sideshows only meant to assassinate his character. He rubbished all the allegations of abuse office, gross misconduct and incompetence presented by MCAs on Wednesday. “The mover of this motion is lying to this house. He is lying to the public. He is tarnishing my name. He is destroying my character with false accusations,” he told the senators in defence. But the assembly lawyers picked holes in his submission and portrayed him as extravagant, rogue and one not fit to hold the office of governor. "We have a governor who is competing with the extravagance of the monarch of King Louis XVI," Njiru said. "Does this person require mercy before you? Is he the person whom this Senate can close its eyes to? I urge you to rise up to the occasion and put it in black and white to save our future generations from such embarrassment." On Wednesday, MCAs claimed Sonko used public money to fly her daughter first-class to the US, diverted money meant for roads and bursaries, plundered public money and presided over a ballooning county debt. They said Sonko sabotaged operations of the Nairobi Metropolitan Services by refusing to assent to the county budget, harassed and molested county executives. On Thursday, while the governor admitted her daughter flew to New York, where she accompanied her mother to attend a 'first ladies' conference, he denied disguising her as a county administrator. The governor told senators that while her daughter was part of the county delegation in the trip that was sanctioned by the Office of the President through the head of Public Service and Public Service CS Margaret Kobia, his wife went out of her way and used her own money to pay for her accommodation. “My wife and daughter stayed at the Dominica Hotel… My wife deposited at the hotel, not from the Nairobi county government, although the trip was official and genuine because they were both part of the government delegation confirmed by the State House, cash of USD1,200 for rooms. At some point, my wife ran her own credit card,” he said. But the governor, during cross-examination by the county lawyers led by Njiru, admitted the daughter has never been employed by the government even though the county footed her airfare. Sonko dismissed claims he diverted Sh297.5 million meant for poor and needy students to lawyers. In his submission, he admitted that his administration did not disburse the cash to schools in 2019-20 because of the closure of schools due to Covid 19. The money, he said, was returned to the Treasury at the close of the financial year. However, in the previous financial year, a similar amount that was allocated for bursaries was paid to all the beneficiaries in schools across the country. He accused some MCAs of using their wives and relatives to divert the money to fake accounts, citing a company named Kobudho, which received more than Sh4.5 million meant for bursaries. “The mover of the motion was trying to divert the real issues. When he was talking about the cheques which I refuse to release, it is true. There are some MCAs who opened fake educational accounts on River Road,” he said. The governor said he declined to sign the Nairobi County Appropriations Bill, thereby plunging the county and the NMS into a cash crisis because it was "illegal" and a plot to "take away everything from me". Further, he disclosed his refusal was also pegged on the strength of a letter by Treasury CS Ukur Yatani that stated there was no legal framework to release the money to the NMS. “We have no problem giving money to the NMS. We donated only about six functions and we needed money to perform other functions,” he said. Sonko said his administration has reduced pending bills from Sh64 billion when he took over in 2017 to about Sh4.4 billion now. Concerning alleged illegalities and irregularities in the procurement for the construction of Dandora Stadium, he said he has neither been involved in procurement nor signed any voucher or contracts. Earlier, four other witnesses, including an MCA, testified in his favour and sought to discredit the procedure of the city boss’ impeachment. Emmanuel Kenga, who identified himself as an ex-police commissioner and a document examiner, claimed that five out of the 88 signatures and names that allegedly signed Sonko’s removal were written by the same person. "After examining the signatures, in my opinion, entries 3, 4, 9, 69 and 85 were written by the same author,” he said. But the assembly lawyers questioned how he deduced the names and signatures were authored by the same person, yet he did not have a specimen to compare them against. The lawyers also took issue with the character and reliability of the witness, citing a court case in which applicants accused him of a number of allegations and demanded his interdiction.  