The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has in the last one year recovered over Sh200 million that had been looted from various government agencies. A report by the anti-graft body says some of the agencies affected by the looting spree were Kenya Meat Commission, KeNHA, Bungoma district treasury and defunct council of Makuyu. EACC chairman Archbishop Eliud Wabukala said the process of recovering proceeds of crime had gained momentum. He noted that in the last one year, the commission had managed to recover Sh209,194,486 in cash from various suspects. Wabukala noted that of the cash, Sh77m had been looted from NLC and KeNHA, Sh33m from the Ministry of Interior and Sh55m from NLC alone. “As part of our duty, we have managed to trace and recover cash and public assets that were illegally acquired by individuals,” he said. Speaking in Naivasha during a workshop on integrity, the chairman noted that of the amount recovered the owners of Sh12m could not account for it. Wabukala added that government property worth Sh6.1 billion had been recovered in the same period from unscrupulous traders. He pointed to 52 government houses in Woodley worth over Sh1 billion, which had been grabbed by individuals using fake documents. Other recovered property was government land in the Industrial area worth Sh5 billion, while other parcels were located in Kisumu, Mtwapa, Kitale, Eldoret and Karen. In the last five years, the EACC has concluded 824 corruption-related cases and secured convictions in 153 cases, he said. “In the last five years, the commission has recovered assets worth Sh19.9 billion that were corruptly acquired and disrupted possible loss of public funds worth over Sh96 billion,” he said. On the ongoing investigations in Kemsa, Wabukala blamed the weak procurement system which saw tens of newly opened companies get tenders. He admitted that the procurement process which saw billions paid out was marred with discrepancies leading to losses of cash belonging to the public. While calling for an overhaul of the tendering and procurement system, the EACC boss exuded confidence that they would unearth and expose all those involved in the graft. “As we continue to investigate graft in Kemsa, we have come to learn that the weakest link is the procurement system which is easily manipulated,” he said.