The Kenya Footballers Welfare Association (KEFWA) have encouraged players drawn from Mathare United and Zoo Kericho FC to consider switching their allegiances after the two clubs were thrown out of the league. The two clubs were kicked out of the top flight after failing to endorse the broadcast deal between the federation and StarTimes. Zoo are,  however, understood to have pegged their survival hopes in the Competition Authority of Kenya. Consequently, FKF declared the players from either sides free agents despite having running contracts with their employers and further opened up a two-week transfer window for them to secure employment elsewhere. Kefwa, the body mandated to champion for the rights of players across all the leagues, has challenged the players to accept offers floated  their way instead of siding with their bosses in the broadcast row. The body's secretary general, Jerry Santos, claimed that the Fifa statutes allow players to terminate their contracts should their clubs go under or are slapped with lengthy suspensions from competitions. However such provisions are not provided for in Fifa laws under  the regulations on the status and transfer of players. "After the fate of the two clubs was sealed, they are inherently unable to fulfil the material terms of their contractual obligations towards the players by, inter alia, providing work. Not only does this frustrate their employment contracts but most importantly prevents them from practicing the trade and profession for which they signed up," said the former Simba player. He added: "Consequently, pursuant to the Fifa regulations and related jurisprudence, they have the right to terminate their employment contracts with just cause and sign for any club of their choice," added the former Kenyan International. Santos regretted that all the stranded players may not nail down contracts with the 16 clubs in the top league. The former Tusker player said clubs in all leagues had strengthened their squads during the transfer window hence it was difficult to accommodate the Mathare and Zoo arsenals. "Clubs had already recruited and I understand it will be tough for all to get new homes in the top flight. The players are currently desperate and I fear that they will not get good offers. We have learnt our lesson the hard way and we will organise ourselves to ensure that players are consulted before decisions are made ," he rued.