Public service vehicles will have their operating licences cancelled for flouting traffic rules during the festive season, police have warned. On Tuesday, Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai said more police officers have been deployed across the country to enhance security. Apart from traffic police, security on roads will be monitored by a multi-agency team of officers drawn from NTSA and Prisons. Commissioner General of Prisons Wycliffe Ogallo said 5,000 officers will be deployed to work as special officers under the IGP. “We have the mandate to ensure maintenance of law and order, so all security agencies are teaming up for this mandate,” Ogallo said. Road accidents still claim lives despite road awareness campaigns by authorities. Mutyambai said that 3,663 people had lost lives through road crashes as at December 13, an increase of 9.4 per cent compared to a similar period last year. Measures targeting drivers to ensure compliance include fleet speed monitoring, random driver checks, licence validity verification and route compliance. “In the random checks, emphasis will be flagging out illegal operations contrary to the Traffic Act such as overloading, use of unprescribed identification plates, drunk driving among others,” Mutyambai said. Police officers on the roads will be “more than you expect”. He urged road users to take precautions towards their safety. “Analysis of the causes of the crashes continue to point to common road traffic offences such as drinking and driving, overloading, speeding, driver fatigue, dangerous overtaking, freewheeling among other human controllable factors,” Mutyambai added. He said PSVs violating the traffic laws will result to an entire company's operational licence cancelled. He spoke during a joint press conference with NTSA at Jogoo House on Tuesday. NTSA boss George Njao noted increased lack of courtesy from road users which has led to a spike in pedestrian deaths. Mutyambai warned that the curfew to contain the coronavirus will be enforced strictly. “Curfew starts at 2200 hours and it’s my understanding everybody will be at home. Please don’t like to face the police because we have deployed more than the other times of the year,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori