Three MPs on Monday snubbed a meeting held to launch the BBI signature collection exercise in Kilifi county. Owen Baya (Kilifi North), Aisha Jumwa (Malindi) and Paul Katana (Kaloleni) skipped the meeting that was called by Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi and county commissioner Kutswa Olaka to rally area leaders take a lead role in rallying the residents to sign in endorsing the document. The MPs who attended were Teddy Mwambire (Ganze), Ken Chonga (Kilifi South), William Kamoti (Rabai), Michael Kingi (Magarini), Jubilee nominated senator Christine Zawadi and a host of MCAs from Kilifi county assembly. Kilifi Senator Stewart Madzayo and Kilifi county assembly speaker Jimmy Kahindi were also in attendance. The three MPs who skipped the event are all allies of Deputy President William Ruto. Out of the three, Paul Katana sent an apology. Immediately after the launch, Baya took to social media and said he won't endorse the BBI as a protest against ‘legalizing further marginalization and protection of our land’. “In life, sometimes, you fight to know you will lose but more importantly, you make a point being heard. I am raising my voice that we can get more results for Kilifi and the Coast Region if we enter the ring and be heard and people will respect us for standing up for our rights,” wrote Baya. While acknowledging that the BBI proposes an additional four new constituencies for Kilifi, the extension of the equalization fund for 10 more years, the increase in revenue allocation for counties Baya said the BBI is still vague on important matters key to the region. “If the BBI does not address the land issues at the coast then we are left as destitute if the BBI does not give a solution on how the equalization fund is distributed is like giving someone a house without the key, we are still destitute. If the Blue economy remains a vague useless statement in the Constitution; it won't translate into any meaningful gains,” said Baya He further took issues with over-representation in the parliaments. “If we are going to have a parliament with 650 MPs then there is no meaningful representation. The 35 per cent to counties will not make any sense if the horizontal formula for distribution is against us,” added Baya. While addressing residents before appending his signature, Kingi said no one should be coerced or forced to sign. Kingi said the BBI is a sure bet for the posterity of the region and country. “As leaders, we should be at the forefront of calling our people to sign. While doing this let us make sure it is voluntary and nobody is forced. This is an important document that will benefit generations to come,” said Kingi. On his part, Mwambire said the document is not about ODM leader Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta but the whole country. “People said the 2010 Constitution was for Raila but now you can see the people who did not support it are the ones currently leading the nation. This is for everybody and not particular people,” said Mwambire.