A recent article beseeched the Church in Kenya to remain apolitical and instead seek true revival that works reformation. The article highlighted the role of the Church in positively impacting society. Integrity and morality are twin roles of any sincere Church that understands the significance of its existence. As a Seventh-day Adventist member in good and regular standing, my attention has been drawn to the stories in the media about a pastor who has been sued for having an affair with an elder’s wife. Although this matter is in court, it would be prudent to use it as a basis to address declining morality and integrity, especially in those overseeing the flock, and to also assess its impact on the image of the Church. It pains members to read and watch negative stories about the Church’s people in positions of responsibility whose actions subject both the members and the Church to public ridicule. For instance, on integrity, there have been complaints of misappropriation of Church funds by those offerings are entrusted to. Corruption, tribalism and incompetent recruitment of staff have been regularly linked to the collapse of once powerful and excellently performing schools such as Kamagambo, Nyanchwa, Segero, Kabokyek, Karura and Chebwai to name but few. Before their collapse, these schools produced admirable scholars who currently head lucrative organisations in the private and public sectors. It must be disheartening to see their former schools fall into an irredeemable state due to the aforementioned reasons. On morality, the Church has been at the forefront in ensuring a morally upright society. However, it is shocking to note that immorality has gradually penetrated all levels of the Church. Luckily, the majority of members who are disgusted with the inability of the leadership to deal with these vices do uphold the values and principles of the Church. Unlike in the past, their main challenge is to get a forum to engage the leaders on the declining morality and integrity. Previously, a rightly constituted business meeting could allow members to question their leaders on such issues. Nowadays, however, there is a general belief among members that leaders have either built an empire with walls of protection from accountability similar to the Sanhedrin Council in Biblical Times or have intentionally refused to listen to the flock or the voice of God. May these happenings be a turning point for the SDA Church leadership in Kenya. As the pen of inspiration counsels “an unconsecrated minister, presenting the truth in an unimpassioned manner, his own soul unmoved by the truths he speaks to others, will do only harm. Every effort he makes only lowers the standard.” —Testimonies to the Church Vol 2 page 344.2. For the wrath of God to spare the SDA Church in Kenya, there must be true repentance and revival starting from the top. “And the times of this ignorance God winked at; but now commandeth all men everywhere to repent.” — Acts 17:30 Finally, “therefore to him that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is sin.” — James 4:17 Communication and public relations professional. Also an elder in the Seventh-day Adventist Church