An Italian man in the middle of a child custody battle with his Kenyan ex-partner based in Australia will continue to have unsupervised visits. This is after the court dismissed an application by the mother seeking to have it set aside orders for unsupervised visits that had been issued. Justice Aggrey Muchelule ruled that it was the children's court that had the original jurisdiction to handle all disputes relating to child custody. “It is the court that can deal with all questions relating to the parents’ responsibility over the child. The child has a mother in Australia,” the judge ruled. Judge Muchelule said at some point it may be necessary for the seven-year-old to visit the mother in Australia and the court will be the one to supervise such a visit. “The father may desire to take the child to Italy where his relatives are.  The court will supervise the visit,” he ruled. The court noted that the child does not belong to the parents of the mother where they are living but belongs to the mother and father. “Now that the mother is away, all efforts have to be made to re-unite the child with the father, hence the need for counselling sessions to begin and to assist their bonding,” the court ruled. He said the trial court indicated that the orders for unsupervised access granted to the father were not permanent since they were reviewable at the instance of either party. Judge Muchelule also ruled that the issue of the father wanting to take the child out of the jurisdiction was not the subject of the order, and he would have jurisdiction to deal with the matter. On December 8, 2016, the trial court heard the dispute and delivered a judgment granting legal custody of the child to both parties, actual custody to the mother, supervised access to the father and both parties to attend counselling at their cost at an institution to be agreed upon and a confidential report to be filed within four months. The father was ordered to pay Sh55,000 every month towards the child’s upkeep, to provide half the school fees and related expenses, and comprehensive medical cover. However, the court later reviewed and lifted the supervised visits to unsupervised visits to allow the father to go for counselling.