A woman captured on CCTV kicking and pinching a 15-month-old child in 2018 has been jailed for three years. Cecily Murugi, 38, was charged at the Makadara law court on March, 14, 2018 with assaulting the child and causing her bodily harm at Ngara Civil Servant quarters in Nairobi. Murugi also faced a second count of subjecting a child to cruel punishment. Makadara senior resident magistrate Eunice Suter said as a first-time offender, the court would have considered a non-custodial sentence for Murugi. “…but the fact that she caused suffering to a very small baby under her care. The child was helpless crying and looking for help and comfort from the accused person who had just hurt her. I do find that the age of the victim is an aggravating fact in the case,” she said. Suter also ordered Murugi to be placed on anger management rehabilitation while in jail. The prosecution presented seven witnesses and closed its case. The child’s father testified that on March 14, he came from work and upon observing the child, noticed that she had bruises on her cheek. He asked his wife who replied that she had also noticed the bruises but she didn’t think much about them. She then went to replay the CCTV footage and upon watching it, started crying. In the clip, the maid was seen feeding the child while kicking and pinching her. She was also seen hitting her with a TV remote control and throwing her on the ground. The footage also showed that the child had been assaulted from February  1. The family called police officers from Pangani police station who arrested the woman. Dr Kenneth Munyingi of Gertrudes Hospital in his testimony said that upon examination the child had bruises on her left chin. In her defence, the woman testified that she did not beat the child. She said that the child fell down and was hit by the door. Suter ruled that Murugi's claim that that the child fell on the door was not supported. “The accused person has introduced those facts at the end of the case and the same qualifies to be an afterthought,” she ruled. The magistrate said the prosecution had proven its case beyond a reasonable doubt. The child's father told the Star that he was content with the sentence and hopes Murugi would mend her ways. 