Kenyan Premier League champions Gor Mahia and Ulinzi Stars are spoiling for a bruising battle on Sunday as they renew rivalry at Utalii grounds with each seeking to scoop maximum points from their opening encounter. The two sides will shove aside their month-long wrangle with Football Kenya Federation over the StarTimes broadcast deal that has kept them in the cold since the start of the new season. As the teams take to the battleground, none of the players from either side could be more eager to open the new season with a goal than the 2018/19 joint top scorer Enosh Ochieng, who wrapped up the chart with 17 goals. The former Kenyan international now says he is training his eyes on surpassing his previous scores as he seeks to guide the soldiers to their first title since 2005 in the hope that such a performance will secure him another call up to the national team. "My target as a striker is to be in the top scorer's race, enable Ulinzi clinch the title and eventually play for the national team," said Ochieng. Gor captain Kenneth Muguna is also exuding confidence ahead of the tie, which comes hot on the heels of their victory over APR of Rwanda in the CAF Champions League preliminary round which they won 4-3 on aggregate to book a date with Algerian outfit CR Belouizdad. Muguna believes Gor have hired quality personnel to deliver their fourth consecutive title. "We've been joined by new players who have come with different playing styles but I'm sure the whole team will be able to blend soon and challenge for the title," said Muguna. Meanwhile, Vihiga United will be eyeing their first win against Nzoia FC at Mumias Complex on Sunday but head coach Sammy Okoth still fears their woes are far from over after the county government went back on their promise to fund the KPL returnees. “The results of the team will reciprocate what we are investing in terms of motivation and moral support. You don’t advocate for good results and yet you are not supporting the team,” Okoth said. Team captain Patrick Okulo echoed Okoth's sentiments claiming they had gone without pay for six months. Elsewhere, AFC Leopards will be hoping to stretch their streak to a third consecutive win as they come up against Sofapaka at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Saturday. Tusker, still groping for the elusive win, will hope to claim the scalp of Western Stima, who host them at Moi Stadium, Kisumu on Saturday.