Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko’s impeachment process has kicked off. Minority leader Michael Ogada moved the impeachment motion on Thursday afternoon. There are 58 MCAs in the chambers. Others are said to be logged in virtually. Speaker Benson Mutura attained quorum of 42 MCAs, giving the green light for the motion to be debated. For the motion to pass, at least 82 votes from the 122 MCAs in the assembly are needed. Ogada said, “This is a business that has never been executed before in this house. We are here to execute our last mandate, our last resort." "We have consulted and we have tried. Mr .Speaker we have held meetings in your office together with the executive to try find solution on how we bring solutions to this county. But we have no other option but to execute our last mandate to impeach Governor Sonko." Meanwhile, MCAs allied to Sonko allege the virtual voting system has been rigged. The MCAs, who are in Kwale county, claim they have been logged into the system despite switching their phones off. The pro- Sonko MCAs who are 57 in total, have been in Kwale since Tuesday, with most of them switching off their phones since then. About 20 MCAs cried foul, saying they were logged into the county assembly voting system without their consent. The MCAs were part of 60 who were in Kwale in support of Sonko, who was also in Kwale county. "None of us had their phone with them. How come we have been logged on yet we are more than 500km away?" said Waithaka MCA Anthony Karanja. He said they had anticipated such fraud and reported the matter at the Kwale police station under OB 18/3/12/2020. The MCAs termed the impeachment a scam. Nicholas Okumu, the Lower Savannah MCA, said the allowance "they are planning to eat after they fraudulently logged me into the county assembly voting system should be returned to wananchi". "I am not part of that shambolic process," said Okumu. Mlango Kubwa MCA Mutheu Musimi said the system is using impunity to bulldoze its way. "We say no to impunity! We say no to corruption! We say no to voter fraud!" said Musimi. MCA Mark Ndung'u called on DCI boss George Kinoti to take action. "Do not let this county and country go to the dogs," said Ndung'u. Karanja said the rogue system only wants to pass the budget Sonko had rejected. Sonko rejected the Sh37 billion budget and instead returned it to the assembly for amendment. He claimed some of the functions that had been given to the Nairobi Metropolitan Service had fraudulently been allocated huge funds against the will of the assembly. Some of the MCAs who alleged they were logged in yet they were in Kwale include Wilson Ochola, Nicholas Okumu, Patrick Musili, Francis Otieno, Jared Ondieki, Paul Silaho, Eunice Mavimbi, David Ayoi and Ruth Ndumi.