Manufacturers have launched a project to promote youth employment and entrepreneurship through skills development. The Promoting Youth Employment through Entrepreneurship and Skills Development Project is run by Kenya Association of Manufacturers (KAM) in partnership with German Development Corporation (GDC). It seeks to create job and entrepreneurship opportunities, by linking Competence Based Education and Training (CBET) and Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) graduates with opportunities in local industries. “The project provides an opportunity for youth to access opportunities in TVET across the country. We are working towards improving the TVET field, by revamping institutions and retraining trainers to align their skills with modern technology,” said Principal Secretary, State Department for Vocational and Technical Training, Dr Julius Jwan Principal Secretary for Youth, Julius Korir reaffirmed government’s commitment to increase young people’s participation in the country’s economic and national development aspirations. “A recent demographic survey report by the Government of Kenya indicated that 14.5 million Kenyans are aged between 18-35 years old. This makes them an important segment in achieving sustainable development goals, economic development goals and our national aspirations,” said PS Korir. Charge d’Affairs, Embassy of the Federal Republic of Germany to Kenya,Thomas Wimmer, appreciated the partnership between Kenya and Germany. Wimmer said that cooperation with private sector to advance TVET skills is a key pillar towards achieving sustainable economic development. KAM Chief Executive, Phyllis Wakiaga, concluded that through the project, the Association seeks to enhance young people’s participation in the local manufacturing sector. “Through the project, we shall continue to support technical skills development among young people; strengthen links between industries, TVET institutions and students; promote continuous career development of technical trainers to enable meet manufacturers’ changing needs and increase the number of women who venture into the manufacturing sector,” noted Wakiaga. The project will run up to January 2023, after the successful implementation of the first phase which saw 1662 TVET graduates placed on internships, and 878 permanently employed in various industries.