Voters in Tseikuru in Kitui county have vowed not to vote into office aspirants who bribe them with Sh50. “We know aspirants set aside millions of shilling to secure our backing but we have realised the money only goes into enriching a few campaign managers. As voters we are only asked to form queues during campaign and given Sh50 each. We now say an emphatic no to that trend,” Kitondo Kiteme said. She spoke at Kasyathuni Primary School on Wednesday during food donation to the elderly in the area. The food distribution was done by the senior pastor of the Baptist Chapel in Nairobi Rev Euticauls Wambua. Each of the elderly beneficiaries received five kilogrammes of maize flour, two kilogrammes of rice, two kilogrammes of wheat flour, two kilogrammes of sugar and a litre of cooking oil. “We are unhappy because money meant for us as voters does not reach us and is pocketed by aspirants’ local point-men and campaign managers to enrich themselves. We have seen these people buy flashy vehicles soon after election after pocketing money that is meant for us as voters,” Kiteme said as the rest of the crowd applauded. She cautioned that the 2022 election aspirants and their campaign strategists must know that the Sh50 they doled out during the 2017 electioneering was no longer acceptable. “As we go to vote a person to office to earn a big salary next time, we must be enticed with a reasonable amount of cash not a mere Sh50,”she said. She lamented those who seek election only appear during campaigns and never participate in any community social affairs before or after. “Today, we have a pastor here who is giving food to the elderly, the vulnerable, widows and widowers just to ensure they enjoy the New Year festivities but some of the aspirants do not engage in such activities. That is why they have to give us a reasonable amount of money to get our votes,” she said. The clergyman told the residents they had the responsibility to choose leaders based on their track record in development and involvement in community activities. Rev Wambua promised to return to the area soon with a donation of at least five goats for a project started by widows and elderly persons. He said there was a need for the well-to-do to also assist the vulnerabl. On the eve of Christmas, Rev Wambua also donated food to over 300 senior citizens from his rural Kamuwongo division in Kyuso. He said he was sharing the food with others in appreciation of God’s blessing and favour for him and his family. Edited by Henry Makori