Investing in real estate is almost always a good idea, and when it comes to a holiday home, it not only provides an escape from your day-to-day life, but also the opportunity to make some money. The idea that you can retreat to your secluded sanctuary when things get too much is an attractive prospect for many, and it has led to the increase of people investing in second homes, sometimes for personal use, but most often as a way to generate extra income. Like with all investments you make, ensure that you have done your due diligence so that you are making the right decision for you. But in this article, we are going to talk about why choosing to purchase a home away from home may be a great idea. Generally buying a holiday home puts you at a lower risk than other real estate investments. This is because they are often in high tourist areas, meaning that you can charge high nightly rates, especially during peak seasons. Secondly, they are quite easy to manage. Usually when you purchase a holiday home, companies who are offering holiday homes for sale can also manage it for you. Which means you don’t have to worry about things like cleaning it regularly, fixing things that may have broken and other things that you really do not have time to do. Like with most real estate, the value of your holiday home will usually increase over time. This means that when you are ready to sell you property you will usually make more money than you invested. If you have been thinking about taking the leap to owning your own luxury holiday home, Maiyan is now offering luxury cottages on their Swara Ranch. The development is set on a scenic 80 acres located 20km north of Nanyuki, next to their other luxury property Maiyan villas. There are currently 34 beautiful modern bungalows complete, surrounded by stunning green spaces and spectacular views.  And Dr James Mowira, Centum Chief Executive spoke about the properties saying, “It makes money for you. And when you are coming, you just call and say I’ll be here on these particular dates and you don’t have to worry about, ‘is your unit clean, is your DSTV working?’ You will find it done.” To find out more about this amazing investment opportunity visit the Maiyan Facebook page.