@Yobramos4 Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho’s political advisor Rashid Bedzimba has endorsed Suleiman Shahbal’s bid to succeed his boss. This is a boost for Shahbal’s prospects as he looks to create a powerful team that will help him clinch the seat in 2022. Bedzimba, a former Kisauni MP, has a significant following in the constituency. He wants to recapture the seat he lost to incumbent and first-timer Ali Mbogo, who has also set his eyes on Joho’s seat. Kisauni is the largest and most populated constituency in Mombasa, with an estimated 285,000 people and seven wards, the most in a single constituency in Mombasa. It had 126,151 registered voters in the 2017 general election, according to IEBC records. Bedzimba said the signs are positive for Shahbal. “I have seen many. But I assure you, my brother Shahbal, of those who go around seeking the seat you are seeking, you are ahead of them,” he said. He spoke at Sheikh Zayed Hall in Bombolulu where he and Shahbal met grassroots leaders from three Kisauni wards of Junda, Mjambere and Magogoni, which, combined, have 61,209 registered voters. Others eyeing the governor seat include Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir, former Senator Hassan Omar, former county secretary Francis Thoya and Deputy Governor William Kingi. According to people close to Shahbal, the two leaders started serious partnership talks around July and have since had several strategy meetings. The plan is to have Bedzimba’s influence in Kisauni work in Shahbal’s favour. The two have created a working relationship, with Bedzimba looking the most likely to capture the Kisauni MP seat. So far, no serious challenger has emerged to challenge Bedzimba for the MP seat and observers say with the influence he has, he is most likely to be the next Kisauni MP should Mbogo go for the governor's seat. Shahbal said Kisauni represents Mombasa because of its diversity. “The problems in Kisauni are the problems in the whole of Mombasa,” he said. He said insecurity has been the biggest problem in Kisauni, with joblessness resulting in a frustrated youth population, which turns into crime to earn a living. “Many youths try hard to get jobs and end up being frustrated. The problem comes from leadership. It is the duty of the leadership to ensure there are job opportunities,” Shahbal said. This, observers say, is an apparent dig at Mbogo, his rival for the seat. Mbogo’s aides, however, dismiss claims that Kisauni is an insecurity hub, arguing that crime has significantly reduced since Mbogo took over the seat from Bedzimba. “Through the Elimu Kwanza programme, we have ensured that the youth go back to school and this has taken most of them away from crime,” said an aide who did not want to be named. However, Mbogo’s protocol and communications director Richard Mwasingo said the MP has reduced crime by investing in education. He said they have built at least 20 classrooms at Concordia and Marimani secondary schools and Baraka Voroni, Majaoni and Kiembeni Estate primary schools. Mwasingo said Mbogo’s efforts have resulted in the approval to build Karisa Maitha National Secondary school in Mwakirunge. Bedzimba’s father, Juma Omar Bedzimba, said Mbogo should not take credit for most of the projects in Kisauni, saying they were conceived and started by his son. He likened Mbogo to a man who is carried on someone else’s back but pants the most when they reach the destination. “Kisauni should not have been taken by someone who cannot run it,” he said. Shahbal said some of the problems in Mombasa, including water problems, can be solved by the county government if only there is commitment. “If the national government does not do it, nothing stops us from putting our ideas together and solving it ourselves as a county,” he said. Shahbal said his passion for education makes him prioritise the sector, arguing that education is the most important enabler of development. He said his administration, should he be successful in his bid, will provide 20 scholarships for studies abroad for every constituency. “This will ensure we have people who get expertise from around the world and bring that expertise and knowledge to develop Mombasa,” Shahbal said. He noted that the BBI has come up with an idea he had when he started seeking the governor position in 2013. In his 2013 and 2017 election campaigns, Shahbal pledged to introduce a Sh50 million kitty for development in all the 30 wards in the county. He lost to the incumbent in both races. “Now, almost 10 years later, the BBI is coming up with the same thing in the name of Ward Development Fund,” he said. He said if the county does not think outside the box and start doing things without over-relying on the national government, "we will wait for 50 years for the national government to do things for us." Bedzimba said he will work with those who, like Shahbal, approach him politely and seek a partnership. “These footsoldiers are the ones who will give you victory,” he said. "Others have decided they do not need help. They think they are heavyweights. But when the going gets tough, they will know the truth. But it will be too late then." 