The national judo team will be going all-out for a medal haul at the African Judo Championships in Madagascar from December 17-26. Kenya Judo Federation president Shadrack Maluki said the team has been training hard for the championships despite the challenges of Covid-19. "We thank the government and all other stakeholders for the support they have given to the team. With the team that we have assembled, I want to promise Kenyans that there will be fireworks in Madagascar," Maluki said. The huge contingent of judokas is a mix of youth and experience and Maluki said  this was done with an eye on the future. "We will be fielding young judokas who we believe will be strong contenders come the Tokyo Olympics. We also have experienced judokas and this we believe will enable the younger ones learn from them and enable continuity," he said. The showdown in Madagascar is also an opportunity for judokas to earn points towards qualification for the rescheduled 2020 Tokyo Olympics. It will be the team's first outing after missing out on the Dakar Africa Open in November as well as the Budapest Grand Slam in October. The federation was forced to pull out of the two tourneys due to logistics challenges and the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. "We have been training hard while observing the laid-down protocols by the Ministry of Health. I know many are waiting to see how many we will take to the Olympics in the different weight categories," Maluki said. The team will leave the country early Tuesday morning for the island before returning on December 23, 2020. The government has catered for the airfare and accommodation costs for the team. After the continental showpiece, attention will shift to the Qatar Masters in January 11-13 next year. The International Judo Federation announced in November that the event will feature the top 36 athletes in the World Ranking list for each weight category. "The final WRL for the nomination of athletes will be published immediately after the African Continental Championships (20th December). I hope all judokas concerned will benefit from appropriate conditions for preparation of this important competition," federation president Marius Vizer said in a letter to member federations. 