The doctors' union has told Kenyans to expect the worst as a stalemate between them and the government remains unresolved. There's less than a week left to the union's three-week strike notice and no consensus has been reached with their employer. “Kenyans, I want to tell you that you are on your own; the patients in the hospitals I want to tell you that you are on your own; people in your homes who suffer from different ailments I want to tell you are on your own. The good government doesn’t care for you anymore,” KMPDU chairman Samwel Oroko said. The union has threatened to mobilise their members to desert hospitals from Monday next week. Similarly, the 14-days strike notice issued by the nurses and clinical officers expires the same day. Engagements with the government and Parliament have borne no fruit.  Union officials said proposals presented do not address the plight of the doctors. “We will not allow any of our members to undergo the painful experiences like those who have passed on over the last eight months and more so in the last month,” Chibanzi Mwachonda said. He is the Kenya Medical Practitioners Pharmacists and Dentists’ Union secretary-general The union said the comprehensive medical cover unveiled by the Health CS Mutahi Kagwe excludes doctors working in county governments. Those in parastatals such as KNH, Kenyatta University Teaching and Referral Hospital, the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital and those in universities are also sidelined. The union on Tuesday said delayed salaries and non-remittance of NHIF deductions had caused friction between them and the national and county governments. “We are seven days to the expiry of the strike and the same game is continuing. Continue that game when you are done and you have resolved all the maters and counties have the monies that are required to implement these things then doctors will come back to work,” Mwachonda said. “Otherwise our lives matter. This is going to be a suicide mission, we will not engage any more in this type of response.” The union issued the strike notice on November 15 demanding the provision of a comprehensive medical cover for all doctors. They also want each county to employ at least 50 doctors to cover for Covid-19 and for the other services. “Healthcare workers took an oath to serve but not to suffer. We cannot continue to carry the burden of the government for this long for the government not to care,” Oroko said. The union said the government must provide quality PPE to all healthcare workers. Kagwe had directed county governments to source for PPE that has been lying idle at Kemsa stores at prevailing market rates. So far, 32 healthcare workers have died with more than 2,000 infected with Covid-19. From the deaths, 12 are doctors who were offering specialist services.