Deputy President William Ruto has called for the need to change the political narrative and economy of Kenya. Ruto said the country's economy and leadership has been hijacked by a few self-centered individuals. He spoke on Thursday at Dr. Babla Secondary School ground in Ukunda, Kwale County while gracing the homecoming party of the new Msambweni MP-elect Feisal Bader. The DP said the common people will continue to suffer because leaders have become greedy for power and wealth. "For many years the major topics in Kenya has been about leaders, political seats, and self-prosperity, this time round we must focus on empowering the local citizens, " he said. He said the economy was in a big crisis and the only way to change it was to reassemble its model under the hustler initiative. Ruto has asked Kenyans not to allow to be divided based on tribalism and religion. "We must refuse to be sold tribalism because as a hustler nation we are united, " said Ruto. The DP said millions of Kenyans are jobless, and that leaders should focus on the same before thinking about anything else. Ruto, who was supporting the Independent Bader during the by-election said leaders should concentrate on coming up with new creative and innovative ways instead of politicking spreading hatred and division. He added that Kenyans want the solution to their problems and not to be told what's affecting them and split into two groups. The DP said with the big four agenda, the government is keen to create new employment opportunities to see that more youth and ordinary citizens are empowered. He told the locals to embrace unity saying that Kenyans can overcome any challenge, adding that Msambweni politics proved that locals have moved away from the party politics and chest-thumping. Garissa Town MP Aden Duale backed Ruto, saying that the time has come when the weak people must be given a voice in national politics. The former Majority Leader in the National Assembly cautioned leaders against discussing less important things. Dual said the government should prioritise the safety of children as they open schools. "The coming year the only national discussion we should have is about the school reopening, economy, Covid-19, and the welfare of the frontline workers, " Duale said.