For three consecutive days, the prosecution and defence lawyers in the Willie Kimani murder trial have been turning up but the case has been adjourned three times. The trial came up on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday this week, but failed to proceed, leading to adjournments. The team will return to court on Thursday for a hearing in the absence of one of the defence lawyers – Cliff Ombeta - who has tested positive for Covid-19. The trial which began in 2016 has previously delayed following multiple adjournments at the behest of the defence. More than once, the judge said, "court will not entertain any more adjournments." The hearing had taken a break in November at a stage where Ombeta who represents Fredrick Leliman and Stephen Cheburet was cross-examining AP officer Nicholas Olesena. Ombeta was expected to continue with cross-examination on Monday, but he sent James Muchere - another defence lawyer to inform the court that he had been taken ill. But since there was no record before the court to prove his claims, Justice Jessie Lessit directed that the trial proceeds on Tuesday. This was after lawyer Katwa Kigen informed the court that he was ready and willing to proceed with his part of cross-examining witness number 44, who was stood down in November. Come Tuesday, Katwa for Silvia Wanjiku - the third accused - said he had spoken to Ombeta and his fellow defence lawyers and was ready to proceed. However, on that day, lawyer Michuki who represents Peter Ngugi did not turn up in court. The court was later told that Michuki thought the case was not proceeding owing to the new development. "Documents confirming Ombeta's results have been availed in court. He needs 15 days in self-isolation and he is not ready to appear in court. However, I am prepared to proceed with cross-examination. But my colleagues are of the opinion that Ombeta finishes first,” Katwa told the court on Tuesday. While giving directions, Justice Lessit ordered that all lawyers be present in court on Wednesday – save for Ombeta. Nevertheless, on Wednesday, by 8.30am there were indications that the case hearing would hit a snag yet again. At 9.30am, the judge addressed the court via a zoom link. She said; “It has been brought to my attention by lawyer Michuki through a letter that we were not supposed to sit today. I apologise for that oversight." Consequently, the judge ordered the case to proceed Thursday. Since the beginning of the trial, 44 witnesses have testified and only one is left before the prosecution closes its case.