Several parts of the country are likely to experience below-average rainfall in December, the weatherman has said. In the forecast on Tuesday, the Meteorological department said the Western and southern parts of the country are however likely to receive near average rainfall. "The rainfall distribution, both in time and space, is expected to be generally poor over most parts of the country," MET said. Occasional rainfall is expected throughout the month of December in Lake Victoria Basin, Highlands West of the Rift Valley and Central and South Rift Valley. These counties include; Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia. "The rainfall is likely to be near to below the long-term average amounts for December. The entire month is likely to be wet with occasional heavy storms," the report from MET read. The occasional rains are likely to be between the fourth week of December 2020 and the first week of January 2021. In Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu, there will be occasional rainfall during the beginning of the month of December 2020. "The expected rainfall amounts are likely to be below the long- term average for December. Cessation is likely to be between the first and second week of December 2020," Met said. Nairobi, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu, and Tharaka will receive morning rains and afternoon/night showers. Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo will receive Occasional rainfall is however expected over few places during the first week of December 2020. Kajiado, Kitui, Makueni, Machakos and Taita Taveta will also have occasional rainfall during the first and the second weeks of December 2020. "The beginning of the month is likely to have wet episodes. Cessation is likely to be between the second to third weeks of December 2020," it read. Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale will receive occasional rainfall. The department said the rainfall distribution, both in time and space, is expected to be generally poor. "Episodes of heavy rainfall are however likely to continue being experienced over some parts of the country during the period," the report read. The October November December (OND) 2020 seasonal rainfall is likely to cease between the second to fourth weeks of December over several parts of the country.