There are uncertainties over the deed of transfer that saw the establishment of the Nairobi Metropolitan Service. This follows the last week impeachment of Mike Sonko as the Governor of Nairobi after 36 months. On February 25, 2020, at State House, Sonko and Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa signed the deed which saw Nairobi County’s health, transport, public works, utilities and ancillary and planning services handed over to National Government. The tenure of the deed was 24 months. NMS was established on March 18,  and President Uhuru Kenyatta appointed Major General Mohammed Badi as its Director-General, handing him the transferred county functions. Badi’s office has a tenure of 24 months, ending in March, 2022, less than six months to the general elections. According to lawyer Evans Monari of Daly & Figgis Advocates, Sonko’s impeachment does not affect the deed of transfer as it was an agreement between two levels of government. “The deed of transfer is not an agreement between Governor Sonko and the National Government but between the County Government and the National Government. It is not pegged to Sonko,” he told the Star on Saturday. Political analyst Danstan Omari also noted that once the former governor signed a document, that document was not Sonko’s but a document of the county government. “Under the law, we have something called perpetuity. The deed of transfer is a document of Nairobi County and not Sonko’s. Something that was signed by former President Mwai Kibaki, Uhuru cannot say it is Kibaki’s but that of the office of the President,” he explained. Omari said the only thing that can nullify it is a court process if it is found that he never had the power to sign. Lawyer Monari said it can be interpreted that NMS will be affected by the ouster. “It was assumed that 2022 is when Sonko was to finish his term in office. One can argue that since Sonko’s term has ended earlier then the deed of transfer has ended with it,” he said. Section 9 of the Deed of Transfer provides the duration and termination of the agreement. It states that the deed shall be effective for 24 months and may only be terminated by the mutual written consent of both parties expressed in a common document. ‘For legal scrutiny, one can say at the time they gave the 24 months tenure, it was on the basis that was the remaining term of Governor Sonko. And if that term ended earlier then the deed of transfer should also end earlier. That should be a contestable issue,” he explained. Omari also explained this contention could be solved once Nairobi holds a by-election. Article 182 of the Constitution of Kenya highlights that an election to the office of county governor shall be held within 60 days after the Speaker assumes the office of the county governor. “But that is another argument that can be laid across that if there is a new substantive governor, will that deed still be valid?” Omari questioned. “But legally, the court should still uphold it,” he added. Omari said that once the county elects a substantive governor, the national government should state if the deed of transfer will still exist or whether the transferred Nairobi functions can be returned to the county government under the new governor. Going further, Omari also indicated that the creation of NMS was a way to get Sonko out and not about service delivery. He notes it was a special purpose vehicle that was created specifically to remove Sonko from office. “Sonko has gone and NMS is not there in BBI. If NMS was a government project that Nairobi must be under the National Government then it would have been part of BBI,” Omari said. When Sonko became a problem, the option of transfer of services to NMS was rooted. He notes that despite Sonko being charged and the  court barred him from accessing his office and executing his mandate as the Governor ,  he was allowed to go to State House and signed the deed of transfer, yet he had not capacity. “He failed to deliver the services he promised as a Governor until 2022 and this lead Uhuru to release the impeachment dragon. But because the president wanted to always lock him out he had to sign it,” Omari added. 