The judiciary has been in the eye of the storm for stands it took in 2020. Of course, nullifying the presidential election in 2017 didn't help as President Uhuru Kenyatta called the Supreme Court justices wakora and promised to revisit the troublesome Judiciary. He was reelected in a no-contest rerun. In 2020, Chief Justice David Maraga, who has just retired, rubbed top leaders and politicians the wrong way when he condemned what he called persistent interference with the independence of the Judiciary. To some he was seen as petty, not savvy and hard-headed but to the majority in the legal fraternity Maraga was seen as a heroe who stood firm and defended the rule of law, even if it meant offending the powers that be. For example, when President Uhuru Kenyatta declined to appoint 41 judges recommended by the Judicial Service Commission, the CJ in June condemned the actions of the head of state and called his actions unconstitutional. On one occasion when he spoke about the issue, CJ Maraga said Uhuru's refusal to swear in the judges has contributed to the backlog of cases  in the Judiciary. "You know I have respect for you as our President, you also know that I have unsuccessfully sought an appointment with you to sort out these issues but it has been futile, leaving me with no option but to make this public," he said on the steps of the courthouse. Maraga asked Uhuru to direct the Attorney General Paul Kihara Kariuki to begin the process of satisfying the decrees issued by the courts. "The President's disregard of court orders doesn't bode well for our constitutional democracy and is potentially a recipe for anarchy," the Chief Justice said. "I must remind you that you swore to defend the Constitution and the laws of Kenya. The laws include court orders. Demonstrate that faith and respect the rule of law and comply with court orders." This did not bear fruit because to date the President has not appointed the judges, as required, but instead the state said that some of the 41 judges had integrity issues. Maraga asked for details and they declined; the cases are in court. Another occasion when the CJ confronted the Executive was when it was decided to place the Judicial Service Commission under the Office of the President. The CJ said the JSC is part of the Judiciary, a government branch that can't be assigned functions by the Executive. After all, the principle of separation of powers is supposed to be sacrosanct. In the order signed on May 11, the President assigned functions and institutions among ministries and state departments, superseding Executive Order No. 1 of 2018 (Revised) issued in July 2018. It contained portfolio responsibilities and changes made in the structure of government. Maraga argued that the Executive order cannot restructure or assign functions to the other co-equal and co-substantial arms of government and independent commissions. "An Executive Order cannot restructure or assign functions of the Judiciary or the Chief Justice," Maraga had said. He said the manner in which the Judiciary operates cannot be subject to Executive Order. Immediately afterward, the state responded. Attorney GeneralKariuki defended the Executive, saying it has done nothing wrong and blamed the CJ for misunderstanding the order. "Nothing in the Executive Order is intended to undermine any independent arms of government or institutions or to cause any confusion to the public," he had said. "The Executive Order seeks to provide clarity to ministries and government departments on their responsibilities with respect to the necessary and inevitable inter-agency linkages and liaisons." Kariuki argued that it is the duty of the President to define for ministries and government departments such responsibilities and mechanisms for fostering policy coordination and the building of synergies between all arms of government. Another thorny issue that kept creeping back this year is the continuous decisions by the state to disobey court orders. The Judiciary has in the past complained about the issue but this year the problem deepened. Maraga again spoke about it and didn't receive a response. Instead, what ensued was a game of ping-pong in which the state kept accusing the Judiciary of frustrating the war on corruption. It was also accused of frustrating development issues by issuing unnecessary orders halting projects. And to make an already bad situation much worse, Maraga advised the President to dissolve Parliament over its repeated failure to implement the constitutionally mandated two-thirds gender rule. Many male lawmakers didn't even bother to show up, denying a quorum for business. It was the right thing to do and was within Chief Justice David Maraga's constitutional mandate, many lawyers said. It didn't happen. Politicians held several press conferences and excoriated the Chief Justice. Numerous lawsuits were filed to challenge the CJ's advisory to dissolve Parliament for violating the Constitution. The situation was so bad that money was withheld from the Judiciary, forcing Maraga again to publicly condemn the Executive. A number of court decisions also did not sit well with the ruling class. In one decision, the High Court nullified 23 bills that were passed by the National Assembly without the involvement of the Senate. Among the bills affected was the Statute Law (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act, 2018 (No. 18 of 2018). Among the laws amended under this Act was the Registration of Persons Act that provided for establishment of the National Integrated Identity Management System (NIIMS), popularly known as Huduma Namba. On the Registration of Persons Act, the Parliament had introduced new definitions in proper alphabetical sequence and made a number of changes. The nullification came at a time when Kenyans were waiting to receive the Huduma Namba cards after President Kenyatta and First Lady Margaret Kenyatta - letters 'K' - became the first to be issued with cards during Mashujaa Day celebrations at Gusii Stadium in Kisii county. Now the scramble to replace the CJ has begun and the state is looking for a compliant jurist who will play ball and not complain. (Edited by V. Graham) 