President Uhuru Kenyatta has mourned Nyamira Governor John Nyagarama. In a tweet on Friday,Uhuru said Nyagarama was a distinguished and true servant of the people. "...his contribution to the development of the tea sector in Kenya and service to the people of Nyamira County shall be dearly missed," he said. The President eulogised Nyagarama, 74, as a friendly, approachable, wise, witty and kind leader. Uhuru wished Governor Nyagarama's family and the people of Nyamira County God's comfort and fortitude as they come to terms with the County leader's death. “As a nation, death has robbed us of a gifted leader whose primary mission was to transform the lives of the residents of Nyamira through his County Government's development initiatives,” he said. The Head of State said it was because of Nyagarama's visionary leadership and excellent scorecard that the people of Nyamira re-elected him for a second term in office. “Governor Nyagarama was a development conscious leader who laid a firm foundation for the socioeconomic take off of Nyamira County. It is because of his progressive stewardship of county affairs that Nyamira residents gave him a second term in office," he said. "At the national level, we shall forever be grateful to Governor Nyagarama for his contribution to the growth of our country's tea sector, where he worked for many years and left an impressive track record of success before joining active politics." Uhuru noted that Governor Nyagarama's success in politics, private life and public service was largely due to his strong work ethic and relentless pursuit for excellence. “We've lost a purpose-driven and consistent leader whose relentless pursuit of success saw him rise steadily, over the years, from a classroom teacher to become one of our country's top leaders," he said. "It is Nyagarama's unique ability to understand the challenges facing his people and his strong work ethic that have propelled him to the high echelons of our country's leadership, rising to become the first Governor of Nyamira County." ODM leader Raila Odinga also mourned Nyagarama as an extraordinary partner. Nyagarama died at the Nairobi Hospital due to Covid-19 complications. Nyangarama was put on life support on Sunday night and his family was called in on Monday after his condition deteriorated. "I am deeply saddened to learn of Nyagarama’s death. My sympathies to his family and the people of Nyamira as we mourn his death and reflect on his life," Raila said. Via a post on Twitter on Friday, Raila said Nyagarama has been an extraordinary partner in strengthening devolution. "I will forever cherish moments with him on duty and as personal friends. May His Soul Rest In Eternal Peace," he said. Council of Governor chairman Wycliff Oparanya also mourned the legislator. "CoG has not only lost a great leader, but a focused, action-oriented man who served the people of Nyamira with diligence and love," Oparanya said. In a statement, Oparanya said the governor was  humble and a stickler to administrative order. "This was demonstrated during his first tenure where he served in the Education Committee having been a trained, qualified and experienced teacher," he said. "We will also miss his wise counsel in the Agriculture Committee where he was a member who was passionate about Tea farming having been a tea farmer himself and previously served in various Tea production and regulatory institutions." Nyangarama, 74, was taken to the hospital three weeks ago when he tested positive for coronavirus. He was immediately admitted to the Covid-19 ICU “as he required a lot of oxygen”. “He was a patient on increased oxygen demand. He stayed in the Covid-19 ICU under the care of doctors and nurses who are dealing with the coronavirus cases,” a source familiar with the governor’s treatment said. After 21 days of being managed by medics, a final test was done on him last week. It came out negative. The second-term governor and former long-serving Kenya Tea Development Authority director is among many other leaders who have contracted coronavirus and ended up in hospital.