@Yobramos4 The government has dismissed claims by political leaders at the Coast that it has neglected the region. Government spokesman Col (Rtd) Cyrus Oguna and Coast regional coordinator John Elungata on Saturday said the region has more than 455 ongoing projects. They said that's more than any other region and they are worth more than Sh400 billion. “We are talking about major projects, not those projects that may go unnoticed,” Elungata said. “The Coast region at the moment has more projects ongoing than any other region. We are talking about projects from Lamu to Taita Taveta counties,” spokesman Oguna said. They spoke after touring projects in Dongo Kundu including the proposed Special Economic Zone. They said some projects are undertaken without fanfare and go unnoticed. “Like the expansion of airports. How many of you know the Coast has so many airports and airstrips?” Elungata asked. He said in addition to Moi International Airport in Mombasa, there is the Ukunda airstrip, two airstrips in Lamu, one in Malindi, another in Voi and one in Minjila, Tana River county. Most have been expanded or are undergoing expansion, the commissioner said. “This shows the government is determined to enhance infrastructure development in the entire Coast region,” Elungata said.   USPK chair Matano Chengo said in most cases, residents do not benefit from the projects and they are useless to most residents. “The major projects they are talking about are taking away our port to Naivasha and taking business from our road transporters to the SGR,” Chengo told the Star on the phone. He said while the government is boasting of projects in the Coast region, residents are becoming poorer by the day. “They bring their people to come and work on the projects, leaving out our own children who are jobless. They give tenders and contracts to their own people, leaving out our qualified companies,” Chengo said. Elungata said the Regional Development Implementation Coordination Committee ensures that the government projects are done to standards and are completed. “The other day, when President Uhuru Kenyatta visited us, he directed tarmacking of a road connecting Bamburi to Kaloleni through Mwakirunge," Elungata said. Spokesman Oguna said the projects, including the lastest Likoni floating bridge, are cumulatively worth more than Sh400 billion. “The aim of the government is to enhance the lives of citizens through development projects,” he said. But Chengo countered saying most of the projects hurt residents, instead of enhancing their lives. “It is like an old woman who has been given high heels and a mini-skirt so that she can pretend to be a young girl to attract men,” Chengo said. The Sh45 billion Dongo Kundu project comprising at least two bridges and other roads, aims to open up the Coast region to business by making it more accessible, Oguna said. “The bridges and roads are meant to make access to the Special Economic Zone easier and to enhance communication between Mombasa and Kwale to promote tourism,” he said. He said once the Dongo Kundu project is complete, there will be twin cities to Mombasa and Kwale at the SEZ. To access some areas around Dongo Kundu, one has to travel 62km around Mombasa and that takes about two hours. The Likoni crossing channel is at least a 30-minute delay. With construction of the bridges, distance is to be reduced to less than 10km and less than 30 minutes. “Moving from one place to another will take less time and business will be enhanced significantly,” Oguna said. The SEZ, the spokesman said, will have industries including a car assembly factory, metal production factory, entertainment venues, a housing estate and amenities. “We estimate that after completion, the SEZ will create at least 300,000 jobs directly,” Oguna said. The 300,000 jobs will on average provide for about five people each, he said. This means the 300,000 will support about three million people, who will have benefited from the SEZ. The Dongo Kundu project has three phases. They are the completed Sh11 billion Miritini-Kipevu phase; the Sh24 billion Mwache-Tsunza phase and the Sh6 bMuteza-Kibundani phase that is 60 per cent complete. Another Sh2.1 billion will be used to create access to the SEZ with access roads, a perimeter fence and other infrastructure projects including electricity, water and social amenities. The Sh1.9 billion Likoni floating bridge will be commissioned by the end of the month, Elungata said. The Sh211 billion Mombasa Gate Bridge, which will connect Mombasa Island to the mainland at Likoni, will replace the floating bridge. The floating bridge is only a temporary emergency intervention necessitated by the Covid-19 pandemic. Oguna said the Coast region will have a completely different look in 2023 when most of the projects will have been completed. He also cited the Sh2.3 billion completed Baricho Water Works in Kilifi; the 135km Garsen-Witu-Lamu road that cost Sh10.8 billion, the Sh49 billion Lamu port that is 80 per cent complete. “The government has decided that no Kenyan will be left behind in terms of development,” Oguna said. But USPK chairman Chengo said Coast residents will only be happy with the projects if they get direct benefits from them. “Do not play with our minds. There are fewer fools at the Coast today,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)