The era of tender fixing and graft-induced procurement at the NHIF is over, chief executive officer Peter Gathege has promised. Gathege spoke as claims of wars regarding critical multi-billion shilling tenders at the National Hospital Insurance Fund emerged. The new CEO who took over in April this year said that he had invited the National Intelligence Service to monitor the tender award processes. “One of the things we did was to ensure that it’s not just our team that is involved. We have also invited the Ministry of ICT and NIS to give us support. It’s a serious commitment,” he told the Star. To ensure integrity and accountability, he said, they have established a section dealing with compliance enforcement. Many former NHIF bosses including Gathege’s predecessor Geofrey Mwangi ended up in court over procurement-related scandals. NHIF had advertised six lucrative ICT-related contracts as part of its preparations to roll out universal healthcare, a key pillar of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda. The fund wants to acquire among others a biometric system for registration of Kenyans for the UHC, a contribution module, a claims system and an ERP software. In an interview with the Star, Gathege said he is determined to transform NHIF and there would be no sacred cows in that endeavour. He said they have established systems to ensure that the process is above board and warned he will not hesitate to crack the whip if any irregularities are uncovered. “I am sure you have seen we have taken to court a number of people including our own staff,” he told the Star. “We are assuring the public the processes will be above board and if there is anything found off we will take action. That is my principle, which I think even my staff know.” He went on: “It’s a principle and a culture that we want to sustain. And one of the things I am committed to doing is restoring that trust. The fact that something was not properly done in the past doesn’t mean that is how it will continue.” The tender closing date was postponed twice as bidders keen to bag the awards inundated the agency with queries. Claims of tender-fixing soon emerged, amid allegations that some insiders were hellbent on awarding the contract to a technology firm whose subsidiary has recently been shrouded in controversy. There are claims that the firm was the only bidder set to get to the financial evaluation in Lot2 of tender number 15 for the supply, installation testing and commissioning of the ERP and claims management system. There are allegations, however, that during tender opening the firm was allowed to proceed to the evaluation stage without some critical documents, including the mandatory bid bond. “This would have technically locked them out,” a source familiar with the behind-the-scene intrigues told the Star.  