Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi’s initiative to allocate Sh20 million to the Miraa Development Support programme has sparked anger and divisions among MCAs. Miraa has become an emotive issue as politicians use the crop for political capital. Kiraitu’s move to set aside the amount and championing the formation of an ad hoc committee aimed at oversighting the use of the kitty seems to irk some members. The MCAs believe that the formation of the committee was done without involvement of political parties and consultation. This, they say, is illegal. Muthara MCA Kinyua Turibu questioned the reason behind the formation of the committee, saying its chair, Kimathi Ithibua, came up with the Sh20 million kitty proposal and rushed to constitute the committee. He said the committee was political and miraa farmers suffer because politicians want to hoodwink farmers, saying they have their interests at heart whereas they are the real enemies. “We were deceived three weeks ago by Governor Kiraitu Murungi, Maoka Maore and his delegation who met Interior CS Fred Matiang’i. Kiraitu and the delegation celebrated how they had cut short long diplomatic dialogue with Somalia and the country was to reopen the miraa market. “They claimed the closed market must get reopened within 10 working days. It is almost a month and farmers are suffering. Some can’t feed their families. We do not know where they will get school fees when schools are reopened in January 2021,” Turibu said. Bundi said the ad hoc committee formation is not anchored in law or any standing orders and in this regard, any resident can move to court and stop the committee’s activities. Nyaki East MCA Robbert Ringera and his counterpart Anderson Muriki said until politicians stop the political rhetoric surrounding the crop, farmers will continue suffering. “I am number one defender of miraa, not the enemy. My name has just been inserted in the committee without my consent or consultation. My conscience is clear. I cannot rubber stamp an illegality. The same people have brought politics on miraa behaving as saviours of the crop,” Muriki said. Kiguchwa MCA Kithinji Ethaiba said there were other three committees that could do similar laws. “We have the Trade, Implementation and Agriculture committee where miraa crop falls under. This is a temporary committee whose mandate expires within seven months. This House must follow systems and structures before making decisions. We cannot bring an illegality,” Ethaiba said. Karimi Karimi defended the committee saying it would play an intermediary role in ensuring members mitigate against effects caused by the markets closure. Mikinduri MCA Gabriel Chokera lamented that he has already uprooted some of his miraa plants due to lack of market. He added that it was not necessary for consultation and that farmers need quick interventions. Kimathi said those opposed to constituting the ad hoc committee are enemies of miraa and they should tread carefully. He said they will conduct businesses starting next week to help resuscitate alternative markets and that no coin will be misused.