The Ministry of Sports and the National Olympics Committee-Kenya will from Monday begin reviewing Kenya's budget for the rescheduled Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics. Approximately Sh500 million had been set aside to cater for Team Kenya's needs but the budget has shot to Sh750 million because of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. "The Ministry and NOC-K will commence intensive discussions regarding the budget starting Monday December 21, 2020. This process is expected to be completed before the Christmas break ahead of the Steering and Central Management Committee Meetings in January, where the budget will be subjected to further discussions and approval," Sports CS Amina Mohammed said in a statement. Afterwards, a briefing on the components of the Games will be presented at the cabinet level to update President Uhuru Kenyatta on the progress of the preparations. These two are among a raft of resolutions at the end of a two-day Joint Tokyo 2020 Preparatory Meeting at Enashipai in Naivasha. The meeting sought to identify the way forward for the team's preparations before coming up with an action plan. "The following mechanisms have been agreed as a systematic way to prepare TeamKenya to compete effectively for the Games, supported by clear and accountable structures at the management level," Amina said. The government will also avail Moi Stadium training facilities for Olympians who need to sharpen their skills in the next six months before the postponed global showpiece. "All Tokyo Olympic participating federations are advised to present requests for training venues to the Ministry before December 24, 2020 for facilitation. Requests for training venues shall be lodged with the office of the Commissioner for Sports for further processing," Amina said. She added that the government is actively engaging the Japanese government to prepare Team Kenya's residential camp in the Japanese city of Kurume during the Olympics. "This venue has already been confirmed and an MOU approved by the Honourable Attorney General signed with the Mayor of the City of Kurume and Governor of Fukuoka Prefecture," Amina said. She promised that the ministry will work with all stakeholders, including the media, anti-doping officers and the Olympians themselves to ensure seamless preparation and efficient information sharing in the public domain.