Dandora Three MCA Charles Thuo was on Wednesday morning sworn in as the Jubilee Part representative at the Nairobi County Assembly Service Board. This comes a day after the party’s Secretary-General Raphel Tuju made changes in the leadership at the assembly. The changes saw Thuo replacing Hamza MCA Mark Ndung’u who had sat at the service board for almost 13 months. The swearing-in was witnessed by the Speaker of the County Assembly Benson Mutura, the clerk and other board members. “Going forward we hope to get more of your support and work together in the best interest of this assembly. We have not time to waste,” Mutura said. ODM Party’s representative at the board, Nominated MCA Catherine Okoth called on Thuo to work in unity and avoid sideshows. “Our aim at the board is to ensure things run smoothly in the assembly,” she said. Another board member Dr Fatuma Aden Affey said the service board should be non-political. “Here in the board, agenda is laid out in transparency without political interference. We do things as per the law, guided by the constitution of Kenya through our chair, the Speaker,” she said. Willis Okelo highlighted that the board believes in Thuo’s wisdom which will be beneficial to the assembly to serve the interest of the people. Thuo thanked the Jubilee Party for having to appoint him in the board pledging to deliver as they expect of him. “Our aim is to serve Nairobians which is the moral obligation we have and the board with me in it will achieve this,” he added Noting that Nairobi is currently at a turmoil, Thuo called upon the assembly leadership to be the guidance the city needs and deal with problems as expected. “ With the guidance of the speaker, we cannot run away because of our responsibilities as leaders of Nairobi. We must deal with the issues at hand to ensure Nairobi gets service,” he stated. Thuo had also served as the Majority leader from November last year to April,2020. The Nairobi County Service Baird comprises of the Speaker, two members nominated by the major coalitions (Jubilee and ODM), The Clerk and two members representing the public Dr Fatuma Aden and Willis Okello had been sworn in as the fourth and fifth members of the board representing the public early this year in February. The County Assembly Service Board is a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal is established under Section 12 of the County Government Act. The County Assembly Clerk is the secretary to the board. In the performance of their functions, employees of the Service do not seek or receive directions from any source external to the Service The board’s function includes providing services and facilities to ensure the efficient and effective functioning of the County Assembly, Constituting offices in the County Assembly service, and appointing and supervising officeholders. Other functions include preparing annual estimates of expenditure of the County Assembly service and submitting them to the County Assembly for approval, and exercising budgetary control over the service among others.