Governor Joseph ole Lenku on Saturday signed five bills into law to improve health and food security in Kajiado county. They are the Agricultural Mechanisation Services Bill (2020), Kajiado County Cattle Sale Yards Bill (2020) and Kajiado County Agriculture Training Centres Bill (2020). The others are Kajiado County Community Health Service Bill (2020) and Kajiado County Health Improvement Fund Bill (2020). The Agricultural Mechanisation Services Bill (2020) establishes a semi-autonomous unit to avail machinery to farmers at a subsidised rate. The machinery includes tractors and harvesters to enable farmers to commercialise their farming activities. The Kajiado County Cattle Sale Yards Bill (2020) is expected to revolutionise the management of livestock markets to boost income through competitive trading. It calls for the formation of market committees to oversee operations, improve amenities in the markets and manage related trading activities. The Kajiado County Agriculture Training Centres Bill (2020) seeks to establish farmer training centres in the county. Farmers will be trained on the management of agricultural and livestock production. It also proposes the establishment of demo farms where agribusiness training can be done to improve farmers’ earnings as well as promote agriculture training in schools. Lenku said the Kajiado County Community Health Service Bill (2020) will ensure community health volunteers are trained on basic health skills to enable them to administer services at the household level with the intention of responding faster to emergencies. Under the law, community health volunteers will get a monthly stipend to boost their morale. The Kajiado County Health Improvement Fund Bill (2020), was also assented into law. The key highlight of the law is that the health department will have a fund for its own revenue and will be able to utilise the resources to improve services without bureaucratic processes. Procurement of basic health equipment and supplies will be decentralised to the department. The governor thanked the county assembly for fast-tracking the legislation. Lenku was accompanied by speaker Johnson Osoi, majority leader Julius Moipai and several MCAs.