@ppcheti Swarms of desert locusts have invaded Lamu and destroyed crops and pasture. The areas worst affected are Mararani, Mangai, Mswakini, Bar'goni, Poromoko, Miruji, Kitumbini, Pandanguo, Maleli, Moa, Mpeketoni, Katsaka Kairu, Boramoyo, Zebra and Hindi. These areas are also major food baskets for the region and have witnessed massive destruction of food crops. Maize farmer Mutua Kimetu said he woke up and found his acreage full of locusts. “They are everywhere. When I woke up today, I didn’t see my maize farm, all I saw was something that resembled a brown carpet. It was the locusts all over my farm,” Kimetu said. The farmers have called on the county and national governments to intervene and control the locusts before they hatch into millions which might be harder to deal with. Mpeketoni farmer Loice Karwenji said the region was staring at an acute food shortage as most farms have been destroyed by the pests. “I have lost over 50 acres of maize, sorghum, peas and beans. The same has happened to my neighbours. This is the same food we sell to the rest of Lamu so you can imagine the mess we shall be in if this persists,” she said. The locust invasion has also been confirmed by Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia who said majority of the farms in the affected areas had been invaded. He said the locusts entered Lamu through Hulugho area on the Lamu-Garissa border before spreading all over. The administrator however said plans were underway to mobilise resources to deal with the invasion. He admitted that situation was a major threat to Lamu’s food security but added that it would be promptly addressed. “This means the county food security is at risk. The national government in coordination with the county government will today dispatch chemicals to help fight the locusts in all the affected areas. We're also educating our farmers on how best they will be dealing with the insects at individual level as we seek to fully contain the situation," Macharia said.  Edited by P.O