Cases of child prostitution in informal settlements around Naivasha have increased sharply, with effects of Covid-19 being cited as the main contributor. The most affected areas are Karagita, KCC, Kabati and Kihoto estates, which host hundreds of low-income earners. Schools have been closed since March. There are fears cases could rise further after the government suspended the Kazi Mtaani initiative, which benefitted the youths and kept them engaged. This development was reported on Monday during a meeting to discuss the effects of the pandemic in informal settlements in Naivasha in the last seven months. It also emerged that mothers in the settlements are allegedly sharing men with their daughters in a bid to get their daily bread. Lifebloom Service International project manager Charles Kasuku said child prostitution had become the norm in the settlements. “We have recorded cases where men are sleeping with both the mother and the daughter openly for a fee,” he said. He said this has been worsened by the use of drugs and alcohol by both the parents and children. Kasuku added that his organisation, which deals with commercial sex workers, had identified 205 of the women and was providing them with food, sanitary pads and other personal essentials. “We have conducted sensitisation sessions with them and we are happy to report that over 20 have started their own business and are no longer involved in the sex trade,” he said. Lucy, a sex worker admitted that poverty and unemployment had forced them into the trade, despite the rising cases of Covid-19. She said that women sharing men with their daughters had been pushed to the wall by lack of food, with the county government and well-wishers ignoring their plight. “This curfew has adversely affected our trade as we have to be indoors by 10pm and we do not have any option but to bring our clients to our houses,” she said. Naivasha assistant county commissioner Brian Mureithi said some parents were selling relief food to sustain their drinking habits. He noted that the move to suspend the Kazi Mtaani initiative would have negative effects in the informal settlement but was optimistic that the programme would resume in January. “We have seen cases where young girls and boys are involved in drug and alcohol taking in our estates and it's time that we worked with the church to stem this vice,” he said. 