Tharaka leaders have appealed to the national government to exploit minerals available in Kibung’a, Maragwa, Marimanti and Kithiori areas of the constituency. MP Gitonga Murugara urged the Mining ministry to explore iron ore, gemstone, lime and copper suspected to exist in the area and establish whether their extraction would be viable. He said his efforts are slowly bearing fruit as the Mining Act gives him hope that one day his constituents will benefit. He wants the ministry to establish an office at Marimanti so an officer can be deployed to preside over "effective research on the viability of mineral deposits". The legislator said the officer will offer advice and give the way forward. “You know we are laymen and may think there is iron ore, only to be told 'sorry, this is not viable'. I've lobbied Mining PS Joseph Kaberia and he gave me the office to look into ways of exploiting minerals in Tharaka, including iron ore, gemstones and copper. We have hints there maybe lime deposits in some areas but the question is are these viable minerals?” he said. Mining PS Kaberia termed the remarks hearsay and later declined to return calls by the Star. Murugura told miners and prospectors to pitch camp in the area. He appealed to landowners to be patient as the government considers exploration. "There is a need to be patient and wait for government’s technical expert report as to whether these minerals are viable," the lawmaker said. Tharaka Nithi Deputy Governor Nyamu Kagwima said he hired France Army consultants to assist in research on the viability of the minerals. He said the consultants took some samples to South Africa for quality and production tests that returned "impressive results". Kagwima, an engineer, has a failed lime and iron ore extraction plant at Kithiori. He said he is involving other sector players to import and instal big plants from China and other countries. “I was doing initial works on exploration to check if the minerals are there and on their possible production. We will revive the iron ore production and aim to establish a limestone plant at Maragwa,” Kagwima said, adding that besides the iron ore, there is low-quality copper at Maragwa in big volumes.