The Ministry of ICT will build capacity awareness and publicity around Online Child Protection Policy. PS Jerome Ochieng said on Wednesday that the biggest emerging threat is cybersecurity. “Online child protection has become of great importance to us and we are working together with the Communication Authority with our main objective being to ensure continued capacity building, awareness creation and publicity,” he said. Jerome added: “We need to do a number of things, one of them is to actually see how prepared our people are in terms of managing this situation especially in the learning sector. That is where our young people are. We need to ensure that we are able to protect them”. The PS spoke during a visit to Konza Technopolis by a team from the National Defence College, led by Major General AP Amagola. He said there was need to raise awareness among individuals, especially the young ones on some of the do’s and don’ts. This he said includes awareness of the risks that are associated with internet usage so that as they get onto this new space, they are cognisant of the threats that exist therein. With regards to the country’s digital economy, Jerome said there is a great need for reliable and resilient ICT infrastructure which is instrumental in enabling the sector to thrive. He said the government has been working on digital skills and innovation to support service delivery. “This ensures that as we have our services, and as the Government is digitizing, we have the requisite human capital to be able to support activities being undertaken,” he said. The PS further said encouraging innovation and creativity among the young people will also ensure the digital economy succeeds is innovation leveraging on advantages presented by the digital space. He said this has borne fruit as evidenced by the increased number of innovations. “There has been very close collaboration with the private sector in the digital space and development of e-commerce to ensure the infrastructure is in place. We also have regulations and rules that help the digital economy thrive,”  the PS said.