Health workers in Nandi county are yet to come to terms with the death of  colleague Victor Kipng’etich Tiony’ a week ago. Tiony' joined the list of over 50 Kenyan clinicians killed by Covid-19 in line of duty. He was the first victim of the contagion in Nandi. The 32-year-old health worker, who was described by his bosses as diligent and hard working, was the clinical officer in charge of Kapkangani Health Centre, one of the busiest in the county. He had hardly completed two years of employment after a one-year internship at Kapsabet County Referral Hospital. As if he had a premonition of what awaited him, Tiony’ surprised colleagues and peers with a wedding invitation for November 1. On that day, he wedded Susan Jebet, a nurse and workmate at Kapkangani Health Centre, with whom he had two children aged four years and four months. The wedding was solemnised at Kapkagaon Catholic Church in his rural home and attended by hundreds of friends and relatives. November was the month Kenya recorded the highest number of Covid-19. On that day alone, 724 people tested positive from a sample size of 5,085, bringing to 56,601 the total number of confirmed cases in Kenya. Many are asking why he risked hosting so many people when he knew that rural folks hardly follow Ministry of Health protocols against the prevention of the spread of Covid-19. “We all believed it is natural that after securing a permanent job together with his fiancée, they wanted to settle and live as husband and wife as a family,” Jacob Maswai said. Maswai, who is the secretary of the Nandi chapter of the Kenya Union of Clinical Officers, said the county had lost a committed and diligent health worker. Tiony’ resumed duty on November 3. As a clinical officer, he directly interacted with patients often without PPE due to shortages. Two days later, he developed a respiratory track infection. He nursed himself for a few days before he decided to take a Covid-19 test. The test confirmed his worst fears - he was Covid-19 positive. “He decided to go for self-isolation under home-based care at his house in Kapkangani just within the precincts of the hospital,” Maswai said. Tiony’ developed severe chest pains and was referred to the better-equipped Nandi Hills Hospital isolation centre. The facility has oxygen and ventilators. By then, his oxygen level had worryingly deteriorated. The lungs were not functioning well. He was referred to St Luke's Hospital in Eldoret for close supervision. The patient had no comprehensive health insurance cover and the hospital demanded Sh100,000 deposit before admission. “His family had to look for the money. Meanwhile, his condition was getting worse at the emergency section where he was camped,” Maswai added. Tiony’ was taken to the ICU and admitted immediately the funds were raised. He was put on anti-viral therapy because the lungs were by then damaged. A week later, he was found to have suffered “healing fibrosis”. The lungs were  completely damaged and he was unable to take in oxygen. The Covid-19 complications also damaged the kidneys and the body organs failed. He died shortly thereafter, leaving behind a Sh2 million bill which the family must pay. Clinical officers are the first to come into contact with patients even before nurses and doctors. Health insurance and compensation in case of death are among KUCO's demands during the ongoing strike. “We are not going back to work to be exposed, die and the whole burden left to our families and colleagues…Tiony’ should be the last to die while on duty,”Maswai said. He added: “When a military officer or police officer dies in line of duty, he/she is compensated by the government at the shortest time possible. However, when a health officer dies, no one seems to be interested.” Nandi county paid Sh300,000 to the private hospital in Eldoret to procure drugs for the deceased. The widow is shocked that she has to settle the Sh2 million debt. The county government blames the national government in the public health sector. County secretary Francis Sang said they rely on National Treasury for disbursements to finance their operations. “We don’t have any independence either financial or in decision-making. We consult the office of Controller of Budget in everything we do and are blameless,” Sang said. Tiony’ will be buried on Tuesday, December 15, at his Kapkagaon village home in Kilibwoni, Nandi county.