Radio Africa Group Digital Editor, Oliver Mathenge, has been listed among top 25 Men In Digital in 2020 by SOMA. SOMA is an honorary award presented to recognize, honour and celebrate individuals and corporate enterprises that practice digital excellence and use online technology for good. Men in Digital is a platform for men to tap into the digital opportunities through regular events that bring together men as entrepreneurs, inventors and business leaders to engage in discussions on new ways of taking digital to the next level. The event is meant to celebrate and recognize the best in the industry, share industry trends and network for career, innovation and business growth. Oliver has been listed among other men who have made an impact in the digital field. Top Men in Digital was created in 2018 to recognize men doing great work for personal, industry and community growth. The inaugural 25 top men in the digital announcement was unveiled on November 23, 2018 in Nairobi. The recognition created need to create capacity for men to grow, intensify impact and create a pipeline of men in Digital. Mathenge is in charge of online content development and publishing for the Star Newspaper, Mpasho, Classic 105, Kiss FM and Radio Jambo. Having been in the media field for over 13 years, he has been on the forefront in the development of electronic journalism through Radio Africa digital assets and other digital channels such as his own. Mathenge has engaged the online community on a regular basis, sharing information on the digital market and also how to grow your brand in this digital era. Speaking about his journey in the digital field and the honorary mention, Mathenge said that it has never been his desire to work for recognition or fame. "My work has focused on public duty that comes with journalism. I am extremely humbled by this honorary mention. "My goal has always been to inform, entertain and educate through the media and the digital space has given me the opportunity to do so. He added that the digital space remains unexplored especially for the media and his desire is to continue unearthing the opportunities available. "This honorary mention is shared with the entire team at Radio Africa Group especially those I work closely with on our various digital platforms," he said. Among those who are being celebrated for their amazing contribution to the digital world is social media influencer and content creator Flaqo, real name Erastus Aiyeko Otieno, who has grown his social media platform by making skits that resonate with many people, especially growing up in an African home. Others honorary mentions are  Sitoyo Lopokoiyit (CEO, M-PESA Africa), Charles Mungai (Chief, Digital, KBC), Mathew Shahi (Manager Standard Digital), Francis Waithaka (Founder and CEO Digital for Africa Ltd), Kuira Brian (Senior Digital Strategist, Oxygen Marketing Communications Ltd), Charles Kinyanjui (Head, Digital Integration and E-Commerce, Co-operative Bank.) The list also includes lawyer Mugambi Laibuta (Partner, Premier LC-ADR consultants, Dan Obura (Digital Strategy Planner, Ogilvy Africa), Stephen Maina (MAD, LeadFrog Media), Peter Njonjo (Founder, Twiga Foods), Meshack Alloys (Founder and CEO, Sendy), Hiram Macharia (Digital Marketing Manager, LG Electronics) and Rex Aholi (Digital Communication Lead, Telkom Kenya). Others are Lanre Bamisebi (MD, Finserve Africa), Robert Kunga (Head of Operations, BAKE), Diallo Gatabaki (Digital Marketing Manager, Anvil Shield Holdings), Samuel Amira (Public Relations Coordinator, ROAM), Kennedy Otiebo (Online Sales, Copia), Mark Mutitu (Growth Manager, Facebook), Jeff Gakuya (Business Development Manager, Google) and Harry Hare (Publisher CIO East Africa).