With the Premier League excitement spreading like wildfire across Africa, Scope Markets announced that it has expanded its partnership with West Ham United. The official online trading partner for the Hammers will now also be the sleeve sponsor of their team jersey. Scope Markets is a leading provider of global online trading services and institutional solutions. Committed to offering cutting-edge trading services, the company’s leadership team has over 50 years of experience in the global financial sector. With a client-first focus, Scope Markets offers forex and CFD trading for individuals and institutions of all levels of experience. The company entered into a partnership with West Ham United in September 2018. The Hammers need no introduction, given that football is undoubtedly the most popular sport in the continent of Africa. Founded in 1900, the East London football club has an impressive history of more than 100 years, which includes quite a few victories and trophies to showcase. The Hammers and Scope Markets had such a satisfying first year of partnership that the agreement was extended in September 2019. The partnership has brought multiple branding opportunities for Scope Markets, which will continue with the further expansion of the partnership in 2020. The two partners intend to work together on various commercial initiatives that will be mutually beneficial. As West Ham’s sleeve sponsor, Scope Markets has the opportunity to display its logo on both the club’s home and away jerseys. The logo will appear next to tributes to the NHS, the frontline warriors of the Covid-19 pandemic, as well as the Black Lives Matter movement. Both Scope Markets and West Ham share a commitment to equality, diversity and spreading awareness of relevant issues. “We are excited about the opportunities this extension of our partnership with West Ham will bring. We are such a great fit as partners and look forward to working together again. By choosing to become the sleeve sponsor, we highlight our commitment to achieving new heights together,” stated CEO of Scope Markets, Jacob Plattner. “West Ham shares the same values and goals as Scope Markets, such as hard work, fairness, teamwork, giving back to the community and a vision of growth for the organisation and its members,” Plattner went on to say. Karim Virani, Digital and Commercial Director at West Ham United said, “A warm welcome to Scope Markets as our new sleeve sponsor. We are excited to expand our partnership with a global organisation with a proven commitment to excellence in service and innovation. This mirrors our own commitment to the sport. We appreciate Scope Markets’ continued support for our team and look forward to working jointly for the benefit and future growth of both organisations.” “Scope Markets and West Ham are much more than partners. We are one family, committed to the same goals of growing our corporate identity on a global scale. The expansion of our partnership is an excellent way to move forward on this goal. Our two organisations are a natural fit, so we are delighted with the new sleeve sponsorship,” added Karren Brady, Vice-Chairman, West Ham United For more information on Scope Markets, please visit www.scopemarkets.com Note: Trading carries risk.