Public hospitals in Kakamega have sent patients home and started arrangements to engage alternative staff to replace striking nurses and clinicians. All public hospitals shut down their wards while services at the outpatient departments remained slow as only medics on locum and contracts are on duty. At the Kakamega County General Hospital, only maternity, paediatric, casualty and renal units were open on Wednesday. The county government has started working on a contingent plan to rescue the health system from grinding to a halt. A spot check revealed that hospitals started discharging patients on Monday. The Star established that patients had been discharged from Matungu and Butere subcounty hospitals and activities scaled down. The Covid-19 isolation centres in Mumias West and Likuyani subcounties are still operating fully despite the strike. Health executive Dr Collins Matemba confirmed Wednesday that patients had been discharged from hospitals. "We asked patients in other departments to go home. However we will be reopening the theatre and oncology departments by end of today (Wednesday)," Matemba said. Matemba said that the county administration was in talks with doctors and nurses in private hospitals to step in on UHC terms. He said plans were afoot to collapse the Covid-19 isolation centres into one unit and engage staff to serve in them. "We can't trust these staff because they can down tools anytime," he said. Kenya National Union of Nurses Kakamega secretary Renson Bulunya said that only tuberculosis and HIV patients are being served in public hospitals. "We have asked the Ampath staff who attend to the two categories to continue serving them because it is unfair to leave such patients to suffer yet there are drugs," Bulunya said. In Bungoma, the county asked families with patients in hospitals to seek medication in facilities of their choice until the situation improved. In a circular signed by Bungoma County Referral Hospital medical superintendent David Wanikina, the facility announced the suspension of both inpatient and outpatient operations. "We advise patients to seek health services in other facilities till the strike is called off," he said. (edited by o. owino)