A sombre mood engulfed St Francis Church in Karen where family, friends and the legal fraternity paid their last respects to Chief Justice Evan Gicheru. He was known for fighting graft, even among friends in the Judiciary, and for upholding  judicial independence from interference. Chief Justice David Maraga said he restored public faith in the Judiciary after many years of subservience to the Executive. Gicheru 79, died on December 25. He was the longest serving Chief justice, having been appointed by former President Mwai Kibaki in 2003. His widow Margaret on Thursday said he has been critically ill and was unable to communicate. Her daily prayer, “God, let my husband only hear your voice always and no other”. She said throughout his ailment, God walked beside him. They were married for 50 years. Gicheru's seven surviving children recalled how he had several health scares over the years but always managed to bounce back. “Even recently, after a three-week hospitalization, you were back home looking brighter and fuller. You always held on. We have seen God work in you and through you. We are so blessed,” they said in a statement. “We shall do our best, na usiwe na wasiwasi, you have left your love, Mum, in good hands with us,” they said. Gicheru was born in Mutira Village, Kirinyaga, on September 16, 1942. He was appointed a judge of the High Court in 1982. In 1986 he was elevated to Court of Appeal Judge, he was appointed Chief Justice in 2003. His wish was to live  to be 120. In 1978 Gicheru penned a prayer at the midnight hour asking God to help him be rich in mind, soul and property. He also wished to serve and worship God throughout his life on earth, a prayer his wife said was answered. Chief Justice David Maraga flanked by other serving and retired judges mourned Gicheru as one of the most distinguished jurists the country has ever known. “He was an outstanding public servant who served Kenyans with distinction and humility,” Maraga said. In his tribute, Maraga said Gicheru’s role in restoring the public's faith and trust in the justice system after its many years of subservience to the Executive will always be recognised as the starting point for the reforms that today define the Kenyan judiciary. He further applauded his widow Margaret for the unwavering support she gave Gicheru when his health had failed him. “We know as a judiciary family Gicheru was not very well in his last days. It was difficult but that proved the love of the family for their patriarch. There are some families that neglect their own but we applaud you for maintaining the love of the man you loved until he parted,” Maraga said. Also present was retired Judge Aaron Ringera who eulogisted Gicheru as a man who believed in integrity. Ringera, who spoke on behalf of all the retired judges, said integrity and judicial independence were the two values Gicheru held dear. “He never interfered with our work. He let every judge do his duty according to the law and evidence presented before him. He himself was incorruptible. This was evident when he spearheaded the clean-up of the judiciary in 2003. He did not even spare his friends,” he said. President Uhuru Kenyatta, represented by Attorney General Kihara Kariuki mourned Gicheru as a devout public servant. “His death has robbed us of a gifted leader and one of the country's most respected legal minds. He was a firm believer in the rule of law and worked hard to strengthen and entrench the independence of the judiciary,” Kariuki said on behalf of the President. Court of Appeal Judges led by President William Ouko said they will remember Gicheru as one of the very few judges who was incorruptible and independent. (Edited by V. Graham) 