Kenya National Union of Medical Laboratory Officers are set to begin their nationwide strike next week effective January 4, 2020. They say the department has been ignored by all levels of government and their attempts to engage them has been futile. The National Secretary-General of the Union Chrispine Momanyi said they had registered a trade union dispute with the Ministry of Labour on the follow up of a trade dispute between them, the Ministry of Health and the 47 county governments. He said they are working in a risky environment lamenting that provision of gloves to the lab officers is a nightmare and they must go and beg to ensure they are safe. Momanyi said sometimes they are told to work without them and the gowns alone are not standardized. "All laboratory officers are still at work even those who are above 50 years just because of shortages. They can't be allowed to stay at home with Covid-19. Enough is enough," he said. In a letter dated December 23, they reminded the office that the KNUMLO registered a trade union dispute with them vied a letter Reference No knumlo/047/2020 on December 16. The union said has been no communication or engagement regarding the same to date. The purpose of the letter according to Momanyi was to request that their labour dispute be addressed with immediate effect. The union wants the signing of their recognition agreement by both levels of government, provision of appropriate, adequate and quality PPEs. They also want an enhanced risk allowance amounting to Sh30,000 and a call allowance equated to Sh10,000. They also want the redesignation and promotion of Medical Laboratory officers, Constitutional Health Service Commission, Group Life insurance and a Comprehensive Medical cover. "...Employment of additional 3,000 Medical Laboratory Officers to cushion the medical laboratory officers from workload due to staffs shortage inclusive of all level of training," read the letter seen by the Star. They also want the Special bio risk allowance for medical laboratory officers amounting to Sh30,000 with the officers employed on contract be engaged on permanent and personable terms "If the above issues are not addressed immediately and KNUMLO included in the ongoing negotiations, we will seek legal advise and also remain enjoined in solidarity with other healthcare unions to down our tools of trade without any further notification within seven days effective January 4, 2021", stated Momanyi. He also called for the engagement of the union leadership in negotiations on the above leadership disputes and grievances. "The government should stop intimidating MLOS's at both levels of government in respect to the ongoing industrial dispute," he added.