Lugari MP Ayub Savula is under probe by police over claims of abusing passengers aboard a plane from Kisumu to Nairobi. Savula was on Sunday night detained at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport police station after his plane landed following a complaint by one of the passengers that he abused her. He is also accused of physically harassing gospel musician Bahati who was in the same flight for allegedly trying to take his photographs and videos. According to the complainant Dorothy Oliech, Savula had been sheepishly winking at her and a passenger who was seated next to her when she warned against the behavior. “The onset of all this is, he was winking to a lady seated next to me and I …...This behaviour was totally unacceptable to us and he was requested to stop, after which he started abusing me, my mother and father,” said Oliech in a post. She added that the MP threatened to shoot her and nothing would happen to him because he is rich. According to Oliech, Savula boasted that even if he was arrested, he would be bailed out. This was after she told him it was wrong for him to punch Bahati. We could not reach Bahati to collaborate the claims by Oliech as his phone went unanswered. ”I am deeply hurt as a woman, a mother of two daughters, a daughter, sister, aunt and as the CEO of a modelling agency which works with a lot of young women. I can only imagine what my fellow women and young girls go through in their day to day activities,”  Oliech said. It was after they had arrived at the airport that the Jambojet management alerted police who picked up the MP to the station for questioning. He was released late in the night after the questioning. The MP denied the claims that he winked at the women. He said he was seated in front of them and it would be difficult for one to wink at someone seated in such a position. He added there were other passengers in the flight who witnessed the drama and can testify against Oliech. “How could I have winked at them when I was seated right in front of them? My eyes are not on my rear head and their claims are malicious and full of lies,” he said. He said after Oliech made the claims on the social media, he was considering suing her for libel. “Those are lies and she will pay for it. I am a respected MP in this country,” he said. Police at the airport confirmed there was a complaint against the MP and the probe into the same is ongoing. A video circulating showed an attendant in the plane talking to Savula asking him to calm down. “We are all grown-ups here. Just calm down, kindly,” said the attendant as the MP responded he had heard her. Savula went on ranting against the passengers who were apparently seated behind him denying he had winked at them. Savula is a second term MP and was elected on ANC.