A father who ‘married’ and defiled his 13-year-old daughter in Machakos has lost a bid to overturn his 10-year sentence. James (not his real name) was sentenced to 10 years for committing incest with his daughter. He was also sentenced to serve 10 years on an alternative count of indecently touching the minor without consent. Being aggrieved, James appealed stating that the trial court erred in law by sentencing him on both counts. High Court judge George Odunga ruled on December 16 that James indeed committed the offence and declined to interfere with the 10-year sentence imposed on him. He, however, quashed the sentence on the alternative count. “Accordingly, I set aside the sentence imposed on the appellant on the alternative count of indecent act and quash the sentence thereon. I however affirm his conviction of the main count of incest as well as the sentence imposed thereon," Odunga ruled. It was the prosecution’s case that on the January 13, 2017 the appellant who is the minor’s father woke her up and told her to go with him to his bed. When she refused, he threatened to beat her up. On several occasions, the accused had quarrelled with the girl's mother and chased her away. He would then take his daughter and rape her. James told her to sleep with him so that he can forgive her for the Sh2,000 she had stolen to buy books. It was her evidence that the appellant carried a stick, took her to the sitting room and threatened to beat her up, burn her fingers and hand. She added that when she told James she wanted to go for a short call, he held her hand and led her to the outside toilet and beat her again. He took her back into the house, and despite her struggle, took her clothes off, while complaining that she was delaying him yet he was getting late to go for work. He then defiled her. The complainant said although she struggled James was stronger. In the morning James woke up and took a shower to go to school but the girl's mother who had spent the night at her grandmother’s returned and she narrated to her what had happened. The mother then reported the matter to the police. Brigit Kawinzi, a clinical officer at Kangundo Level 4 Hospital, testified that the complainant was seen at the Hospital three days after the incident with a history of defilement. Sh reported the recurrence of similar episodes by the same person since August 2016. Upon examination, she was found to be in fair general condition. She however had several healing bruises on her upper limbs and the type of weapon used was blunt. Upon her further examination, a pregnancy test was negative but urinalysis revealed infections. The external genitalia was normal but she had a foul smelling discharge with a long-standing tear. James testified that the complainant was his daughter. His wife had run away from home. He contended that the charges against him were fabricated and false. Edited by Henry Makori