Othaya MP Gichuki Mugambi has told those opposed to the Building Bridges Initiative to read the report and appreciate its content and not reject it without grounds. Mugambi said many of those misleading Kenyans on the BBI report could be unaware of what is in the document. He said they have been deceiving Kenyans that the BBI is meant to create more seats when in actual sense it is reducing some. The MP cited the appointment of ministers and their assistants whom he said will be MPs and therefore will have no extra pay. This, he said, will save taxpayers’ money as they will also have no extra employees. Currently, MPs are picked from outside Parliament. He spoke in Othaya on Monday after leading his supporters in signing the signature collection form at the deputy county commissioner’s office. The MP said Othaya people will support the BBI as the constituency, which was among the 27 protected constituencies in the country for being below the population quota, will get permanent status. “In the BBI, Othaya has been entrenched as a fully-fledged constituency and therefore we will not need to worry anymore that we can be scrapped and that is a great achievement,” he said. Tetu and Mukurwe-ini in Nyeri county were also protected constituencies. Mugambi said the initiative devolves more funds to counties. “We know that those resources will benefit Wanjiku more and it is the surest way of making sure all parts of this country are growing and they are getting the resources needed to grow,” he said. Mugambi thanked President Uhuru Kenyatta for his vision and foresight to address the issues that have been affecting Kenyans for long. Addressing some of the issues will ensure that there will be no repeated election violence which has occurred in every election cycle, he added. “We have repetitively gotten into trouble, as a country, in one way or the other and now we have a situation where we are fixing the economy, peace and inequalities and this is what we want,” he said. This will be healthy for investors, many who had that wait and see attitude around the election period as they were uncertain of what will happen.