Residents of Kong'ololo A, B and C in Moding Location, Teso North Sub County got an opportunity to present their challenges to the County Government of Busia on Thursday. This was during a public awareness meeting convened by Chief Officer for Education and Vocational Training, Daniel Mogoria. Mogoria, who hails from the village, said the public awareness meeting was in terms of the number of sustainable development and community awareness. Talking in parables, the Chief Officer said a big tree helps a small tree to grow, giving a chronology of how he grew up from the remote village to make him what he is today. "Aim for the sky in everything you do and with God's guidance, you will reap from your hard work," Mogoria challenged his village mates especially the youths. The Chief Officer said the main challenges facing border residents especially those married to Ugandans is lack of Identity cards, promising to pursue the matter with relevant authorities to reduce cases of people without IDs. "As residents of Busia County, we need to cultivate the culture of respect. Let's not abuse those in leadership; nobody is perfect in this world," he said. Deputy Speaker and area MCA Lawrence Okaale promised to address issues raised by residents including electricity, water and the road to Kong'ololo church. "We need reticulation under the last mile. Being among 12 wards which contributed to the purchase of Drilling Rig, a borehole will be sunk in Kong'ololo village," he said, adding that he will also rehabilitate the road traversing the village. Infrastructure and Energy Executive, Okwara Ekirapa urged villagers to be wary of the Covid-19 pandemic during the Christmas and new year festivities. He noted that Governor Sospeter Ojaamong was making efforts to address the ongoing strike by health workers which has paralysed services in public health institutions. Nominated MCA Nancy Okademi said she will organize a one-day football event on boxing day to help nurture talents that abound in the area.