@Yobramos4 Joseph Macharia has not been able to walk, move or speak since he was battered by police enforcing the 7pm curfew on May 23. His family is appealing for help to treat him. Macharia was hospitalised at the Port Reitz hospital in Changamwe for three months before he was discharged to continue with treatment at home. He is fed paste-like food through pipes. His mother Rose Waruguru holds his hands because left alone, Macharia writhes in pain and removes the feeding tubes. “He was vulnerable and the doctors were afraid he might have caught infections at the facility because of other factors including the coronavirus,”  Waruguru told the Star on Tuesday. They live in a one-room house in Wayani area of Changamwe. Macharia's wife left him before the incident and took their son with her. She has not gotten in touch or enquired about his condition. His mother has had to stop doing odd jobs and take care of her emaciated son full time. “I am the one who does everything for him because he cannot even move. I wash him, change his clothes, give him medication, feed him though the pipes, and all that,” Waruguru said. The mother has to blend Macharia’s food into paste so she can feed him through tubes. Muslims for Human Rights intervened and sought help for Macharia. Through Muhuri rapid response officer Francis Auma, the family was connected with Mombasa Cement, the company that cleared Macharia’s Sh75,000 hospital bill at Port Reitz Hospital. However Macharia’s condition worsened at home and he had to be admitted at the Mewa Hospital in Majengo. The hospital bill rose to  Sh300,000 and Auma got in touch with the Independent Medico Legal Unit, which cleared the bill. “We thank IMLU because they have been taking care of Macharia’s medical bills and other medical needs ever since,” Auma said. Waruguru said since she stopped doing odd jobs, they have not paid  house rent for eight months. “I cannot raise the rent. I need help. The landlord has been so kind to us because he has allowed us to stay despite the arrears,” she said. Kind neighbours help give food to the family. A makeshift drip stand has been set up at Macharia's bed so a doctor comes in to administer the drip whenever need be. Maina, his elder brother, told the Star Macharia responds to sound but one has to be keen to realise he has responded. Doctors told Waruguru they do not know if or when Macharia might regain his mobility and speech. “They just told me to keep the faith,” his mother said. “If the government has any ounce of humanity left in them, they should chip in and help because it is the government that did this to my son,” she said. In July, Changamwe subcounty police commander Joseph Kavoo said police must act professionally at all times. He said though he was not around when the incident happened, he will ensure justice is done. “There are the channels to be followed so we can ensure these people get justice. This is a serious matter,” Kavoo. The case was reported to the Independent Policing Oversight Authority under reference IPOA/CMU/1649/2020. On Tuesday, Auma said so far Ipoa's investigations have been too slow and nothing concrete has come out if it. “This is why people lose confidence in such institutions,” Auma said. Ipoa said the matter is still active and investigations are ongoing. (Edited by V. Graham) or move