For a very long time, fashion has always been embraced in different ways; from different clothes to shoes to hairstyle and makeup, you name it. Fashion lovers will bare witness that sometimes its quite hard to keep up with the latest trends and some end up looking like clowns for trying a trend they don’t understand. But for those who are keen to details and have mastered the art of playing around with fashion trends, have left us in awe of their craft. Kenyans are quickly catching up or rather embracing different trends with many incorporate some of their unique tastes to give them a satisfactory finish. Celebrities in Kenya have decided to drip till they drop and most of them have not disappointed. But when it comes to being a couple and a fashionable at that, trust me that’s a bonus point and your fans will definitely want to try your style. In case Miss Rona thought she would stop people from dripping in finesse, she should think again because there are couples who were not about to stop shocking the streets with some dope fashion statements. Well, these are couples we think are the most fashionable in 2020; 1. Wanjiru Njiru and Ben Cyco If there is a couple that has really excited most of their followers, it will have to be these two. Social media influencer and content creator Wanjiru Njiru and Gospel artiste Ben Cyco have been termed goals by many and it’s just not because of the content they create everyday but they are very fashionable. If you follow them on their social media platforms then you must have recognized how fashionable these two are. One thing they really stress on is making fashion look so easy but when you try it out, epic failure. But let’s give credit where it’s due. They are a young couple, trying to make it in this life of sin. So let’s celebrate their success and how amazing and gorgeous they compliment each other. 2. Anerlisa Muigai and Ben Pol Anerlisa Muigai is not a new name in these streets. She has been a topic of discussion ever since she decided to put her life out in public. But is there a formula for how one is supposed to live their lives? If there is, please do share with the rest of the world because things are blown out of proportion in every corner. Anerlisa surprised her fans when she got engaged and later on got married secretly. Scratch that. These two have been giving people sleepless nights with their fashion trends. Anerlisa has had the finer things in life but she has also worked hard for her own money, being the CEO of a water company. But when it comes to her fashion sense, one can tell that she knows exactly what fits her curves. Her husband is not bound to be left behind as he is equally pretty fashionable. Coming from Tanzania and having to also embrace our weather, he must be adjusting pretty well. 3. Rashid Abdalla and Lulu Hassan Can we take a moment and talk about couple goals for a bit because these two really do give their viewers chills. The fact that they are both TV presenters and spouses at the same time just leaves one with so many questions, like how do they do it? Only they know how they make it work. Apart from being couple goals, they are also quite fashionable and many have admired them for their fashion sense. They are very reserved and their trends have caught the eyes of many. 4. Kabu wa Jesus and Milly wa Jesus Kabu wa Jesus and Milly wa Jesus have overtime become an internet sensation, sharing stuff about their family, travel, charity, sponsorships an all that jazz. They were not that famous before but if you are good at content creation, you are bound to be noticed and your content appreciated. Well, the two are now swimming in their hardwork as they are highly followed on social media. Apart from that, we have to just appreciate how fashionable these two are. Their outfits always compliment each other and most times it's hard for one to guess what they will rock. 