Agriculture, Livestock, and Fisheries Chief Administrative Secretary (CAS) Linah Jebii Kilimo has said Kenyans are partly to blame for the increase of street families. Kilimo has said this has also encouraged people from neighboring countries into Kenyan urban center streets. Kilimo spoke during a public participation meeting on a draft national policy of rehabilitation of street families. The meeting, held at the Ruring’u youth empowerment center in Nyeri town on Thursday was meant to disseminate the census report done in 2018 on the number of people in the country’s streets.was “We are not stopping anybody from being generous but the policy seeks to address and give guidelines on how you can channel that generosity without making it a factor for somebody to come to the streets,” she said. After the census report, the national government collected views and came up with a policy that has gone back to the people for public participation. The policy is meant to guide the country on how it is going to get a road map to address the issues of street persons. “Since 2003 the government has tried many initiatives to address street families’ plight but failed as they were not well informed,” she said Kilimo said the report captures the factors that saw people get into the streets and what the country can do to address them. “They are no longer street children but families born in the streets. They could be in their third generation now and their numbers continue to grow,” she said. Going by the 2018 census, there were 46, 639  street people in the country, and more children have been born since then. Nyeri had over 900 persons out of whom about 886 were males while 34 were females. Other factors according to the census report are poverty, corporal punishment, and family breakdowns among others. The policy will also bring in the issue of Nyumba Kumi due to the fact that men are more than women. This will ensure that for every ten households, the government knows the challenges that push people to the streets. The CAS said county chapters will be established so that the issues of street families are addressed at the county level. “We have ways how we would want this to be implemented. The structure that will be in our policy will include prevention, rescue, rehabilitation, and reintegration to the community for those who have already bolted out of their communities,” she said. Kilimo said they will be rescued in a sustainable manner, adding that once integrated, the fund will walk with them. The policy also seeks to tap the various government safety nets available to address poverty in the country and other factors so that the vulnerable can be supported through programs like cash transfer and many other interventions both by national and county governments. Nyeri Central DCC Joseph Mwangi said they have been swooping street children from Nyeri streets, taking them to Thunguma children’s home but they walk back into the streets. He, however, said a policy will deal with the issue as the document will give guidance. The forum was also attended by the police, judiciary, children’s officials, and elders who included the Kikuyu Council of Elders and Kiama kia Ma among other stakeholders.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris