A suspected fake lawyer has been charged with failing to register as a Kenyan citizen,  among other charges The man allegedly operated as an advocate of the High Court without a practising certificate. The "unknown person" alias  David Kamau Ngata was arraigned before Makadara senior resident magistrate Lewis Gatheru to among other charges, impersonation and making false documents. He is accused of failing to register or deliver up a certificate of naturalisation of the nature of identification card. In the second count, Ngata was charged with personation of a person named in a certificate. “Unknown person alias David Kamau Ngata on December 10,  at Victory Plaza Mama Ngina street room 310 at Thika town  you uttered a practising certificate for the year 2020 issued to David Ngata Kamau  an advocate of the High Court of Kenya falsely representing to be the said advocate,” the charge sheet read in part. Ngata denied all the charges. According to the police report, on September 5, one advocate by the name  Ngata Kamau operating a law firm by the name Ngata Kamau and Company Advocates  wrote a letter to the Law Society of Kenya complaining that there was a person who was practising as an advocate under his name. The LSK upon perusal of their data base found that no such person exists and was therefore a quack. The society then wrote to the office of Deputy Inspector General demanding thorough investigations into the matter. The investigations immediately commenced with officers heading to Ngata's offices in Thika, They met several people in the office waiting to be served by the said advocate. During the arrest, several documents were confiscated, among them the said practising certificate by the name of Ngata Kamau which was  allegedly signed by the Chief Registrar of the Judiciary. The suspect was arrested. Investigating officer Peter Kanagi asked the court to deny the accused bond since his fixed place of  abode and  identity is not known and if freed he might disappear from the court’s jurisdiction. Kanagi added that the accused was unable to produce any document to help identify himself. “The accused gave his identity card number to be …. And after forwarding his fingerprints and the ID number, the said ID number was found to belong to one Esther Wairimu and his fingerprints could not be traced from the Registrar of Persons,” he said. This was objected to by defence lawyer Elisha Ndemo, who said that denying the accused person bond would be against his constitutional rights. “My client here is suffering from diabetes. He needs a proper diet and time to exercise. Locking him up would be putting him at risk of contracting Covid-19,” Ndemo said. Gatheru ordered the accused to provide two sureties with each giving a surety of Sh500,000.