A judge on Wednesday declined to grant a petitioner orders to temporarily stop the IEBC from receiving signatures backing the BBI Bill. The petitioner sought to stop the signature verification, citing lack of involvement of Kenyans in the diaspora and the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission’s failure to register the lot as earlier ordered by the Supreme Court. Justice Jairus Ngaah declined to grant James Gitau prayers for stay orders against the processing of the collected signatures. Gitau argued that the lack of involvement of Kenyans in the diaspora was unfair and discriminatory. He said thousands would be disenfranchised in the process. “The BBI referendum will significantly change the Constitution and the IEBC disobedience of court orders means thousands in diaspora will not have a role in voting for or against the proposed structural changes of the Constitution,” he said. However, Justice Ngaah allowed the petitioner to file a substantive motion for orders restraining IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati from receiving ‘the partially collected’ signatures. The judge said the petitioner was free to seek substantive orders stopping the IEBC from commencing the verification drive. Gitau sought that IEBC avails the opportunity for voter registration in the diaspora before holding a referendum or general election. The judge granted him leave to seek orders restraining the IEBC from holding a referendum before it registers the diaspora voters. Also allowed for pursuit is an order compelling speakers of the National Assembly and Senate to confirm to the court receipt of reports on diaspora voter registration from the IEBC. “Leave is hereby granted to the applicant to file a substantive motion for the forgoing orders,” the judge said. In declining to grant the orders as sought, the judge further directed that the substantive motion be filed and served to all parties within seven days. “The respondents shall file and serve the response to the motion within seven days of service of the applicant’s motion,” the ruling reads. Ngaah also allowed Gitau to file any further affidavits in response to new issues that may arise from the respondents’ responses. The case will be mentioned next January 19 via video link, when the judge is expected to give further directions on determination of the substantive motion. The petitioner argued that the Supreme Court had directed the IEBC to effect progressive voter registration of Kenyan citizens in the diaspora, and ensure their participation in elections. The IEBC was also to file annual reports on such registrations for review by the National Assembly and Senate through the offices of the speakers. It was on the strength of the orders that Gitau moved to court to stop the polls agency from processing BBI signatures without factoring in those diaspora voters. The BBI secretariat employed the use of electronic interfaces and booklets to collect the required one million signatures. About 5.2 million were obtained. The BBI secretariat is expected to deliver the signatures to the IEBC on Friday in order to kick-start the verification process to attain the one million threshold.