More than 40,000 victims of floods and banditry in Baringo county won't have much to celebrate at Christmas - except being alive. Houses, homes, farms, schools, hotels, dispensaries, churches, offices, stores and boats have been submerged or flooded by the overflowing lake. They are in urgent need of food, shelter, clothing and medicine. Climate change is blamed, along with heavy rains, siltation, overcultivation and other factors. Emily Cheburet said she is yet to receive any assistance since her small rented shop and house were covered by floodwaters in July. “I lost goods worth Sh100,000 and I have nothing to celebrate with my children this season‚” Cheburet told the Star. Her family is crowded into a small, rented iron-sheet house with other IDPs at Loruk Trading Centre in Baringo North. Cheburet said they used to live a fairly normal life before the floods but now they are living in a shanty. “We need urgent relief food, better housing, drugs and warm clothing since young children have contracted colds, flu, pneumonia, typhoid and malaria," she said. The worst-hit villages are Sintaan, Sandai, Lorobil, Ng’ambo, Sintaan, Ilngarua, Loboi, Leswa, Nosukro and Lebunyaki in Ilchamus ward, Baringo South, which are covered with water. Mzee John Chelelgo, 75, is putting up in a rickety iron-sheet single-room rented in Loruk Trading Ccentre. He fled attacks by bandits on the volatile Chepilat border of Baringo North and Tiaty last year. His house was also flooded. Chelelgo takes care of three grandchildren and pays their school fees. He said they survive on one meal a day - ugali with local vegetables. “The armed bandits threatened me with gunshots and drove away all my livestock, leaving me with nothing. The cows were my main source of livelihood and are yet to be recovered," he said. Chelelgo now relies on charcoal burning to support his grandchildren. He is among more than 40,000 residents displaced after Lake Baringo burst its banks and overflowed in heavy rains since April. “My house suddenly got marooned in water, forcing us to move. We spent one week in the cold before settling in this rented house," Chelego said. Last month, Tiaty MP William Kamket and MCAs opposed the plans to compensate just the bandits attack victims, saying more people should be paid. “Pokots also lost their animals to the government shoot-to-kill order, so if a payout must be made, all communities must be considered, otherwise, it should not happen,” Kamket said. Baringo North MP William Cheptumo said Parliament passed his 2018 Bill to compensate banditry victims but the government is yet to implement it. Governor Stanley Kiptis termed the flood situation "the worst" ever, calling on the national government and international agencies to intervene. He said the county alone cannot afford to resettle and stabilise the victims as its resources are limited. Edited by Kiilu Damaris