The Kenya Integrated Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (KIWASH) project has injected Ksh63.2million to compliment the efforts of the County Government of Busia to combat Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic in the county. Towards this end, the County Government of Busia through the Department of Water, Environment, Irrigation and Natural Resources has assigned Sh150m to compliment what development partners are undertaking in the county. Speaking before signing a joint work plan with the County Government led by the Governor Sospeter Ojaamong at the Governor’s office on Wednesday. KIWASH Deputy Chief of Party, Calvin Odero said through a 12-month extension (September 2020 –September 2021), KIWASH has pivoted its activities to respond to the Covid-19 pandemic. “The USD 9 million investment by USAID and the American People aims to improve access to drinking water, sanitation and hygiene services for an additional 140,000 Kenyan citizens in nine counties in the Financial Year 2021,” he said. Odero said KIWASH has lined up seven activities in Busia County. They include sector coordination and planning, supporting social behaviour change campaigns, risk communication and community engagement, maintaining service provision, strengthening rural water supplies and wash in healthcare facilities. Ojaamong thanked USAID for extending its stay in the county by one year noting that the agency’s efforts to extend its services to schools will help combat Covid-19 especially as schools are set to open in the New Year. The governor said the projects identified by KIWASH are well spread across the county, exuding confidence that the projects will benefit more people and institutions. “Infrastructure challenges are our major undoing despite having major rivers and Lake which could avail water to every household; we shall overcome these hurdles with partnership from development partners,” he said. Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi said schools equally required water, noting that the move by KIWASH to include schools in their programme is appreciated, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic, and as they are set to reopen in the new year. Water Executive Dr Isaac Alukwe said KIWASH support will entail rehabilitation of the department’s key priority projects that are vital in combating the Covid-19 menace. “Also we have a number of other partners who are coming on board. Lake Victoria North has injected Sh8m for Mungtasti and similar amount for Onyunyur; Lake Victoria North Basin Commission has allocated Sh26m with Sh8m already allocated towards rehabilitation of Osipata gulley while the balance is subject to discussions between the Ministry and the County Government,” he said.