The matatu traffic flow will be regulated digitally when the PSVs are eventually barred from the Central Business District. The Nairobi Metropolitan Services says a digital app it will soon introduce will be available for both the operators and commuters. “The electronic system will inform the matatus operators when their slots are ready and they can send their PSVs to the terminus and also let commuters know how many matatus are ready for use,”NMS director of Transport and Public Works Michael Ochieng' announced. The app will be activated immediately the relocation of the PSVs from the CBD to Green Park, Muthurwa, Fig Tree, Desai and Park Road and Workshop Road termini starts. According to the NMS, bus rapid transport will be available to ferry commuters from the termini to the CBD and vice versa. Ochieng' said the termini will only be used as dropping off and picking up points - not for parking vehicles. Construction of the Green Park (Railway Club) terminus where PSVS plying Ngong' Road will drop and pick passengers is in progress. It will accommodate 110 buses and is 80 per cent complete. PSVs plying Mombasa and Lang'ata roads will drop and pick passengers at the  Workshop Road terminus. “We (NMS) have already designed the Workshop Road terminus where matatus plying Mombasa Road and Lang'ata Road will terminate. Work will start there soon,” Ochieng' said. The NMS will decide when to prohibit matatus from accessing the CBD after all the termini are completed. Last month, it started cracking down on unauthorised allocations of passenger picking up and dropping off points in the CBD. Communication from NMS director-general Mohamed Badi said that only Ochieng' had the authority to allocate the slots. The November 13 notice said this was a precursor to the review of NMS de-congestion plan for the city. Badi said the bays had been allotted by unauthorised officers. "No person or officer is authorised to allocate or assign the bays for PSVs without written authorisation from the director of Roads, Transport and Public Works upon approval by the DG," he said. Henceforth, requests for such allocation will be scrutinised by the NMS-appointed committee. "Any purported approval granted without following this procedure will be null and void," Badi warned.