Farmers in Kigecha village in Mai Mahiu, Naivasha, are up in arms over increased cattle rustling. They threatened to block the busy Mai Mahiu-Narok road to protest the attacks that have left scores injured in the last two years. This comes barely a month after Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya pointed an accusing finger at herders from the nearby Kajiado County. He said that more security officers would be deployed to Mai Mahiu to tame the rustlers from Kajiado West, who had for months terrorised area residents. But after waiting unsuccessfully for the promised deployment of the security officers, the farmers took to the streets to protest the daily attacks by the herders. According to one of the victims Jane Wacera, the well organised group attacked every evening, making away with tens of their livestock. Wacera told of their pain and anger adding that fear gripped all the homes in the evening as rustlers moved from one homestead to the other. She noted that few homes had been left with livestock. She warned the next thing would be tribal clashes in the volatile area. “We have been left as paupers due to cattle rustling and we are appealing to CS Fred Matiang’i to come to our rescue before we lose lives,” she said on Sunday. This was echoed by 60-year-old Ann Wairimu, who accused the country’s top leadership of focusing on the BBI as the poor continued to die from insecurity and hunger. The granny said that they had visited various government offices seeking assistance but this was not forthcoming as the rustlers continued to rob them at will. She noted that due to fear, some families contemplated relocating from the land, which they legally owned. “This is part of a bigger plan to evict us from this land that we own and we are calling on the security agents to act before more blood is shed,” she appealed. On his part, Paul Kuria said his parents had undergone suffering of the rustlers adding that their only hope lay in constructing a police post. “We have sought the assistance of the anti-stock theft unit and even Nakuru county government but no one has come to our assistance as we spend sleepless nights in the cold,” he said.