Two students, Keith Brian and Maxwell Okoth from Kanga High School in Migori County, have been crowned Young Scientists of the Year. They were crowned for being the best innovators at the 2020 Young Scientists Kenya National Science and Technology Exhibition. Their innovation, Smart Vigilance System, seeks to help the government solve burglary and illegal intrusions encountered by members of the society. “Burglary and illegal intrusions are some of the major problems people are facing. We wanted to come up with an effective solution that would help curb this menace. Our project will help mitigate the effects of burglary,” Keith said. The two were among 120 students from 22 counties who submitted 64 innovative projects and showcased them at the three-day virtual Young Scientists Kenya (YSK) Exhibition. Each winner will get a cash award worth Sh50,000 and a full scholarship to Strathmore University to study a STEM course of their choice. They will also participate virtually in the 2021 BT-Young Scientists and Technology Exhibition. Jeskah Kaptalai and Betty Khimollos of Ossen Girls High School from Baringo County were the runners up with a project on an eryngo root extract that boosts oral hygiene by preventing formation of microbial plaque. The 2020 exhibition saw the introduction of a COVID-19 Response Award, which was won by Precious Kigona and Brita Kavete Muti from St. Thomas Girls High School, Kilifi, with their project on creating herd immunity. Last week, President Uhuru Kenyatta opened the 3rd Young Scientists Kenya National Science and Technology Exhibition YSK is in its third year and is a partnership between the Ministry of Education and the Embassy of Ireland to encourage students to study STEM subjects and consider careers in science. Uhuru urged young Kenyan scientists to spend their energies wisely and remain focused in order to come up with cutting-edge innovations that will help thrust the country into global scientific stardom. He challenged the budding scientists, engineers, and innovators to work towards entrenching Kenya’s position as a hub for innovation and creativity in the sciences and technology.