Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati was on Wednesday turned away by senators after he failed to provide crucial documents to respond to audit queries. The county chief had appeared before the Senate County Public and Investment Committee to answer audit queries raised by former Auditor General Edward Ouko for 2015-16, 2016-17 and 2017-18. However, Wangamati ran into trouble after the team established that he had no annexes to anchor his responses to the queries. “Governor, where are annexes and addendum to support and mitigate audit queries?” chairman Sam Ongeri (Kisii) posed. Wangamati said his officers had only produced two copies of the annexure and his office had provided similar documents to the committee last year. “This information we provided last year, so there is nothing we are hiding,” the governor told the panel. While some committee members called for the adjournment of the meeting, others insisted that they proceed with queries that did not require annexes. The chairman temporarily adjourned the proceedings for 10 minutes to allow members to deliberate on the matter. “We will not proceed without enough copies because we must interact and follow through on what you will be reading to us,” Ongeri said after the deliberations. “It will be in the interest of Bungoma county that these documents are availed.  We have had similar cases before, and we did not proceed.” Ongeri ordered the governor to appear at a date to be set by the committee in January before the panel retreats to file its report. In his defence, Wangamati, said he had assumed that since the committee had covered enough ground in their previous appearance, the team would be handling “outstanding issues” “Mr chairman, we only came to address the remaining outstanding issues, since we had tackled almost all issues in the committee led by Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang’, we did not know that we were required to provide the same documents,” he said. However, Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula urged the committee to investigate whether it was a “genuine mistake or mischievous omission in bringing the document to this committee”. Edited by A.N