A new global report says 18 per cent of healthcare facilities in the country lack handwashing points. Other East African countries lag behind Kenya with 22 per cent of such facilities in Tanzania, 25 per cent in Uganda, 30 per cent in Rwanda and 46 per cent in Burundi. The ‘Global Progress Report on Wash In Health Care Facilities’ was released on Monday by the World Health Organization and Unicef. “Kenya, Somalia, Tanzania and Zimbabwe have, or soon will, complete their national cholera control plans in line with the global roadmap 2030 and start implementing multi-sectoral prevention and control measures, including those focused on WASH,” the report states. “Completing these national plans is more focused on efforts to better equip health care facilities in cholera hotspots.” Globally, one-third of healthcare facilities do not have what is needed to clean hands where care is provided; one in four facilities lack basic water services and one in 10 have no sanitation services. “This means that 1.8 billion people use facilities that lack basic water services and 800 million use facilities with no toilets,” the report says. Only three in 10 healthcare facilities had basic waste management services in 2019. Similarly, only 27 and 45 per cent of facilities had waste segregation and treatment respectively. The waste, according to the report, may be either segregated and not treated or treated without segregation. Kenya also lacks basic environmental cleaning services that require written protocols and ensuring all staff with cleaning responsibilities in health facilities have received related training. The report recommends that the government develops capacities of the health workforce to sustain WASH services and promote and practise good hygiene. Medics are also required to integrate WASH into regular health sector planning, budgeting and programming. “We need to think about hand hygiene every day and not to only keep Covid-19 at bay, but to also maintain a healthy livelihood. This is also a reminder to governments that access to water and sanitation is key, and as such should be treated as a public good to ensure access to all," Amref Health Africa Group CEO Dr Githinji Gitahi said. 