Residents of a populous Nairobi constituency notorious for robberies and muggings have accused their MP of abetting insecurity in the area. The lawmaker is said to be prevailing upon police officers in the area, including by bribing them, to release gangsters terrorising the locals. Residents say the well-known youths have never been arraigned and are released from police cells a day or two after their arrest. They have publicly been boasting that they have the blessings of mheshimiwa. The locals are now planning a mega demo in the constituency. Some are threatening to collect signatures to recall the filthy rich legislator. A former Cabinet minister from the Rift Valley has been dragged into a money-laundering scandal. Sources whispered to Corridors that an anti-graft agency has already frozen Sh250 million proceeds scandal. It’s whispered that some of the cash is associated with a betting company. The former minister who also served in as MP has tried many times to make a comeback to politics without success. Corridors will keep you posted of the legal drama regarding this big money scandal. How were scores of Foreign Service cadets interviewed and hired? There are questions about the rigour of the interviews which were done by a government agency. Some have claimed some of the interviews lasted less than five minutes. Questions about possible impersonation have also arisen as the interviewees were not seen via video link. Those in the know say the agency is again set to hire over 400 assistant county commissioners through the same approach. Some have bitterly protested that this process is unfair. Is the government agency overwhelmed? Should line ministries be allowed to recruit? A governor from western Kenya is on the spot for supposedly giving the impression that the clamour for constitutional review is more urgent than the current plight of health workers. The county chief sparked fury among residents when he asked health workers who have threatened industrial action to “persevere for just a little more time” until the Building Bridges Initiative is passed. His remark was not taken lightly as it came against the backdrop of an increasing number of health workers falling victims to Covid-19. Residents are wondering why some politicians have focused so much on the referendum at the expense of Kenyans at the forefront in battling the pandemic.