Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia has given his blessings to the MCAs over the impending impeachment of Speaker Wahome Ndegwa. In a statement issued on Wednesday, Kimemia called on the legislators to expedite the move, which he indicated is in the public interest. “I urge all the MCAs and staff of the county assembly to be guided by the law and hasten their intended business of the motion so that normalcy resumes in the house in the public interest. I assure that no officers will be unduly victimised during this process,” he said Ndegwa, however, protests his innocence, saying the legislators are only chasing shadows and shooting in the dark. He said the burden of proof lies with his accusers and they shall be put to strict proof. On Wednesday afternoon, the MCAs led by the leader of the Majority petitioned and filed the motion seeking to impeach Ndegwa on three grounds of gross violation of the Constitution, gross misconduct and incompetence. The Nyandarua county boss reiterated that the MCAs have a right to exercise their authority to impeach or discipline the speaker who, in any case, is an ex-officio employee of the MCAs and not their boss. He said the speaker is elected by the MCAs to facilitate the professional management of the county assembly including the welfare of members and staff in accordance with the law and the Standing Orders. The speaker is also expected to facilitate, mobilise and promote good relations, cooperation, collaboration and consultations with the executive within the confines of the doctrine of the separation of powers so that the people enjoy the highest level of socio-economic development, Kimemia said. Given that the speaker is not elected by the people, Kimemia said, he is expected to be professional, non-partisan and extremely respectful to the rule of law, the people, the county and national leadership, but Ndegwa has failed. He said a credible speaker works very closely with the governor, the MCAs and the entire executive to expedite peace and development and uphold the public interest and the rule of law. That is why it is almost impossible in the Commonwealth “to see a speaker in the media, funerals or public gatherings demonising the institution of the county or national government.  Any shortcomings in the executive should be raised by elected members led by the leader of Majority who have the oversight mandate similar to those in the National Parliament.” The people of Nyandarua, Kimemia said, are tired of defamation of their county and the confrontational politics and abuse of the county and national leadership. What they want is speedy socio-economic development of sustainable wealth and steady incomes from their hard-earned sweat. Kimemia noted that now that MCAs have decided to send the speaker packing, he has but to accept his fate and move on. He said Ndegwa cannot force himself on his appointing authority, namely the MCAs. He said that notwithstanding the fact that over 25 out of 39 MCAs have signed in support of the impeachment, Ndegwa has every right to defend himself within the law and should not resort to crude, illegal, irregular and uncivilised methods such as the closure of the assembly to defeat a constitutional and legal exercise. “What if the already agitated people and MCAs resort to similar acts of impunity?” he asked. When the MCAs went to serve the notice of motion for the removal of the speaker to the office of the clerk on Wednesday afternoon, they found the entire assembly closed with not a single worker or official in sight. Kimemia said that the leader of the Majority Edinald King’ori bitterly complained and urged him to urgently intervene because, despite alerting and agreeing with the acting clerk of the county assembly Mukiri Muchiri that he would be served with the impeachment instruments in accordance with the law, the clerk chose not only to absent himself but to also shut down the county offices “at the instruction of the speaker”. The county assembly, he said, is a property of the people and the county government of Nyandarua, not personal property. He said that he, as the chief executive officer of the county, has a cardinal mandate to ensure that it operates without interruption and in accordance with the law, adding that anarchy shall not be allowed. Edited by Henry Makori