Has an MP from Wstern Kenya ditched Deputy President William Ruto's (pictured) camp? Residents  believe the MP, a close ally and a county point man, could have abandoned the hustler movement, judging from recent happenings. The legislator has lately been using every other event to drum up support for the constitutional amendment process. He has also been attending signature collection drives alongside leaders who have been castigating the DP for his stand on the process. The MP has even been seen applauding, as if in agreement, when Ruto came under criticism from speakers at a recent event. *** Top officials in a constitutional commission are on the spot for sleeping on the job. A small bird whispers to Corridors that the commissioners have not done anything tangible since being sworn in. They are said to just be there in their offices, not offering leadership at all. Nonetheless, the commissioners hatched a recruitment exercise despite the commission having been at odds with the parent ministry  over a bloated workforce. It has emerged that some commissioners had vested interests in the recruitment exercise, a move that stalled the recruitment. Some senior-level managers at the commission are said to be considering a move to court to challenge some of the decisions made by the commissioners. *** A female politician from Nairobi left her supporters confused after she attended a Building Bridges Initiative event of a rival party. The former nominated legislator attended the signature collection drive of a party to which she does not belong. Members of her party are said to be wondering if the politician could be double-timing since she has declared interest in an elective seat in the city come 2022. Corridors has learnt that the politician has been reaching out to her supporters to assure them that she is still a member of the party and was just offering assistance to counterparts pushing for a constitutional amendment. *** And still in Nairobi, a ward representative in the county is believed to be a very worried man. The youthful man who is said not have done much on the ground is worried after a former news anchor declared interest in the seat. The journalist is said to be enjoying a great following from locals for his ability to articulate issues bedevilling the informal settlements. He is also said to have influence around government circles, a matter that is giving the MCA nightmares. The ground has shifted from the MCA such that he has vowed to disrupt all meetings convened by the former journalist, whom he accuses of poisoning the minds of his constituents with falsehoods. 