When Sam Allardyce went to West Brom’s training ground on Monday morning after losing 0-3 to Aston Villa, he wasn’t the first to arrive. Several players realised that the session might be a stressful affair and sure enough, Big Sam marched into the briefing room and sat there just looking around at his team with a very stern look on his face. After watching his West Brom side being torn apart by Aston Villa, Allardyce must have wondered whether or not he had made the right decision to return to the world’s most demanding league. Usually, on a Sunday, Big Sam’s toughest decision was choosing from the tapas menu at his favourite restaurant in Marbella, Spain or relaxing in his big villa choosing what drink whilst relaxing on a sun lounger. Standing in the rain watching a bunch of inept highly-paid footballers trying to pretend they knew what they were doing, whilst actually having no apparent clue, was almost too much to bear. The 66-year-old looked on as his team were clearly second best and he introduced two substitutes and used a back three to stop Villa’s rampaging forwards. At least that move paid off and West Brom marginally improved. For only the second time in his career Allardyce lost his first match after taking over as manager of a struggling club and suddenly he realised that sorting out West Bromwich at the Hawthorns is not going to be as much fun as sitting in the Spanish sunshine.  Arteta’s man-management skills called into question I have touched on this before but Mikel Arteta is facing a difficult time as his dressing room appears to fall apart. Players are causing him to lose focus, lose control and lose his formula for winning. The Gunners are 15th in the table and much nearer to relegation than challenging for title honours. They have made their worst start to a season since 1974/75 and that’s a staggering 46 years ago! It is unthinkable but if Burnley win their next two games and Arsenal lose, Arteta’s team will be in a relegation battle. Both Mesut Ozil and Sokratis Papastathopoulos are big players with strong personalities and being out of the squad has actually meant more pressure on Arteta who is attracting severe criticism for not utilising their talents. Willian has not settled at Arsenal and despite a big paycheque and a three-year contract he is nowhere the near the player of quality who joined from Chelsea. Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang has scored only twice from actual play since signing a big expensive contract. Alexandre Lacazette is struggling and has never justified his £72million transfer fee. Thomas Partey was seen as a general in midfield but he has spent more time injured than playing. The dressing room is an issue and player morale is low. Influential players such as David Luiz have backed the manager publicly but even they are being drowned out by a wave of depression. Arteta was heralded as the new Messiah, who would rescue Arsenal’s fortunes, but I am hearing from inside the club that his position is not guaranteed rather, is under review. The problem is that a good coach — and no one doubts Arteta’s coaching abilities — is one thing but man-managing a squad of players with strong individuals is something completely different and demands a completely different set of skills.  Could Modric return to Tottenham? Luka Modric joined Real Madrid from Tottenham in 2012. Now, in a bizarre turn of events, current Spur’s manager Jose Mourinho wants him back. It was Mourinho who took Modric to Madrid in 2012 and I have heard that the 35-year-old Croatian is keen to return to play out the final part of his career. Mourinho, my contacts in Spain tell me, has phoned Modric and asked him for a positive reaction if Tottenham make a bid. His current contract ends in July so he is free to talk to other clubs in January and Mourinho has reportedly made an early move. If the move does come off, Modric will reunite with Gareth Bale, who left Real a few months ago and the two are known to be good friends. Stones stakes his claim to a regular City place Manchester City central defender John Stones spent much of the first part of this season very much out of favour. He was not reliable enough for Pep Guardiola to trust him in the exalted company of Aymeric Laporte, Kyle Walker and Fernandinho. Because of injuries, Guardiola had no choice but to bring in his number three choice John Stones. Now the former England man has turned around his career when most of us thought the only way he would progress would be to leave for another club. In their recent match against Burnley, Stones did not make one single mistake holding very firm against the very physical Ashley Barnes and Chris Wood, who usually bully defenders. He was also the best passer of the ball and won the Man of the Match Award. He demonstrated to Guardiola that he is back to his best and deserves to be selected every week and it is crucial that England manager Gareth Southgate was sitting in the stands watching. The word is that we could soon see Stones return to the Three Lions squad.  Klopp upsets Liverpool striker Mo Salah Mo Salah’s ex-teammate and close friend Mohamed Aboutrika thinks the Liverpool striker could leave Liverpool because he isn’t 100 per cent happy. According to Aboutrika, Mo was very angry that he was not made captain in the Champion’s League game against Danish team FC Midtjylland. In a recent interview with Spanish publication AS, Mo said it is up to Liverpool where he plays next season. Both Real Madrid and Barcelona are interested. Salah also thinks that if he played for either of the Spanish teams, he would have won the coveted Ballon d’Or award. He said about the captaincy at the time: “Honestly, I was very disappointed. I was hoping to be the captain but it’s the coach’s decision.”  Juve sweeten the deal to get Pogba Following my story two weeks ago, in which I told you that Juventus had asked Manchester United to consider a swap deal for Paulo Dybala and Paul Pogba, I am told the Italian club are now willing to add Federico Bernardeschi to the deal. The 26-year-old is both a winger and an attacking midfielder. However, Juve have even used him as a central defender on occasions. United have yet to respond to the suggestion and they have still not confirmed or even agreed that Pogba will definitely be leaving.  Maguire played most minutes in the world Manchester United captain Harry Maguire has played more football than any other player in the world this season. He is one of three United players in the top ten. Maguire played 4,745 minutes up to December 17, more than 401 minutes played by Manchester City’s Ruben Dias and Brazilian Marcelo Lomba, who plays in Brazil. United’s Bruno Fernandes is fourth on the list with 4,164 minutes and Victor Lindelof is seventh on 4,142. The statistics were produced to support clubs who have called for five substitutes to be allowed in order to protect players health but this has been turned down by the Premier League based in several votes. Every other major European league has adopted the system including Uefa’s main club competitions and the EFL but the top-flight Premier League clubs voted against it at a shareholder’s meeting.  Greenwood a worry for Solskjaer Ole Gunner Solskjaer is a worried man. Not about his own position as manager of Manchester United but because of Mason Greenwood, the talented forward who presented goal threats and goals in abundance until just recently. Now the 19-year-old is misfiring in a big way. Gone are the darting runs, moving effortlessly behind opposing full-backs on either side of the pitch and he often goes missing when his teammates are looking for someone to pass to. In six matches this year, he has had ten shots on goal and only three on target. That suggests he is not in the right place at the right time. Fortunately for Solskjaer, he has back up from the experienced and turbo-charged Edinson Cavani, who has saved United blushes more than once. Solskjaer knows that he has to rediscover Greenwood’s potential and this week, much of his time has been spent with the youngster on the training field.  Wayne Rooney shows his better side Wayne Rooney has disappointed me over the years with his general behaviour but I am pleased to announce that he has improved his character lately and his most recent good deed should be applauded. Following on Marcus Rashford’s organisation helping young people with nourishing meals, Wayne has donated £30,000 to fund Childline which provides counselling for children up to the age of 19. The former United player and England captain also runs a foundation which donated another £75k to the same charity. Rooney said this week: “It is very upsetting to know that there are children out there who are suffering and will not enjoy a Christmas.” A round of applause for Wayne, I think.  Covid-19 means more testing for London clubs In the United Kingdom, we have Tiers 1-4 which refer to the severity of Covid-19 in all locations. Many Premier League clubs are in Tier-4 which has the highest number of cases of the infection. These clubs are now being tested twice a week in order to combat the virus. The team which I support, Ipswich Town, have had all their Christmas matches cancelled because seven of their team members including the manager have Covid-19. Arsenal, Chelsea, Crystal Palace, Fulham, Tottenham and West Ham will be tested every 72 hours. Other teams in the Premier League are tested once a week.