A magistrate on Tuesday declined a request by the state to continue holding a woman who hosted a party for 44 teenagers at Mountain View estate and ordered she be charged on Thursday. Magistrate Caroline Muthoni dismissed the application by the prosecution to detain Millicent Kithinji and three others for five more days. Kithinji was arraigned alongside David Wambui, George Muthoni and Michael Moreka who police allege are part of a syndicate exploiting children through prostitution and pornography. Last week, police told the court that there are third parties benefiting from pornographic images of the 44 teenagers nabbed at the party. Police said they were tracking the accomplices. But the prosecution told the court Tuesday that the police were not through with their investigations as had been anticipated. The court heard that the 44 children were drawn from all over the country and the police needed more time for investigations. Corporal Julius Oguma told the court that if released, the suspects would interfere with witnesses. He urged the magistrate to keep them in custody in order to maintain the integrity of the process. “Their gadgets were taken for analysis and investigations are not yet complete. We pray for five more days so the investigation officer can conclude the investigations,” he said. However, Kithinji’s lawyer opposed the application, arguing that asking for more days was unfair. She said that they were praying for the same reasons they gave last week. “All the children’s statements were taken by the Children's Department, and upon their statements being taken, that is when they were released,” she said. She claims that the 44 children were released on November 23, more than a week ago and none of them has been called back to record statements. According to the defence, police did not state that the children are being intimidated and no one has complained. The court was also informed that Moreka is a student and he needs to prepare for his exams. The lawyer said all the four suspects have fully cooperated with the police and their statements taken. “It is our prayer for the court to be given police bond or cash bail and they can report to the police every single day,” the lawyer said.