Thousands of Kenyans who were forcibly taken into quarantine will not get their cash back after a judge declined a request in a petition by activist Okiya Omtatah. Omtatah had moved to court on behalf of all Kenyans who were forced into quarantine and had wanted the court to order the state to pay them in full. But Justice James Makau on Thursday declined to issue the order for a refund because the prayer was not particularised and the county governments were not included in the case. “A declaration that government should refund in full the money each and every person who it quarantined and was forced to pay for their upkeep is not particularised, specifically pleaded and strictly proved and the county governments who are required to make payments having not been joined as parties, the claim for refund is not proved and is declined,” the order reads. However, the judge faulted the government for taking Kenyans into quarantine and forcing them to pay for their upkeep when the pandemic struck in March. He ruled that it was illegal for the state to take Kenyans into quarantine without an order of the court. "A declaration is hereby issued that the decision to quarantine members of the public at various facilities without an order of a magistrate and forcing them to pay for their upkeep is contrary to Section 27 of the PHA,” Makau ruled. Omtatah sued in April to compel the state to pay all Kenyans who were forced into quarantine without a court order. He argued that the decision made by the state to compulsorily quarantine persons without a magistrate’s order was illegal. “The government broke the law by failing to ensure the people it had forced into quarantine were adequately accommodated,” he said. He had also raised concern over how the quarantine was handled claiming that individuals who were previously free from Covid-19 when they were isolated later tested positive for the virus. Omtatah also argued that it’s unlawful for the state to extend the number of days in mandatory quarantine at detainees’ cost.