The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission on Wednesday repossessed from a former judge a land parcel belonging to the Kenya School of Law through the courts. Justice Bernard Eboso declared as null and void the letters of allotment dated on November 3, 1997 which transferred the land to Rockville Limited. The commission had established that Leonard Njagi – a former KSL principal and judge – jointly with directors of Rockville Limited fraudulently acquired the one-acre parcel along Bishop Road, Nairobi 23 years ago. The property, which was once allocated to the defunct East Africa High Commission, was reserved by the government as the official residence of the principal, Kenya School of Law. The commission established that a survey was done on the land in 1997 and letters of allotment and title deed illegally issued to Rockville Limited. EACC sued to recover the property whose current market value is estimated at Sh700 million on grounds it was never available for allocation to third parties. It also reasoned that the transfer of the public land to private ownership by Rockville Limited was irregular as legal procedures had not been followed. The commission thus convinced the Environment and Land court which granted it prayers to repossess the plot. Justice Eboso further declared that the grant issued to Rockville Limited was null and void as well the transfer by Rockville and subsequent charge to Standard Assurance Kenya. The judge ordered that the Chief Lands Registrar cancels the entries and register the suit property in the name of the Principal Secretary National Treasury. “A permanent injunction is issued restraining the defendants, their servants, or agents from interfering with the LR. No 209/6238,” the ruling reads. EACC chief executive officer Twalib Mbarak welcomed the decision. Twalib said the judgement should send a clear signal to land grabbers that irregularly acquired public property will be recovered. “EACC invites others in a similar position to voluntarily surrender land in their possession that was set aside for public utility,” he said. Njagi was found unfit to continue serving as a judge in December 2012 in a case which was hinged on the transfer of the government land prior to his appointment. The Judges and Magistrates Vetting Board found him lacking in conduct and integrity and declared him unsuitable to continue serving. Njagi petitioned the decision in June 2013 seeking various reliefs against the vetting board but all were dismissed for lack of jurisdiction to entertain his case. (edited by o. owino)