Kadu Asili candidate for the Dabaso ward by-election in Kilifi North Peter Ngome has withdrawn from the contest in favour of ODM competitor Dickson Karani. Ngome cited close cooperation between his team and their ODM campaign counterparts for the decision to step aside. He said his family and supporters were consulted. Ngome said he had already filed his withdrawal with the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. The by-election is scheduled for December 15. Ngome's withdrawal in favour of Karani was announced at a rally held at Turtle Bay area where he was received by ODM party officials. The race will now be between Karani and former MCA Emmanuel Changawa who is seeking reelection on the MDG party ticket. Present during the rally was ODM Kilifi county youth league chairman Samir Nyundo, Sokoni MCA Gilbert Peru, Kibarani MCA John Mwamutsi, and other local leaders. Sokoni and Kibarani wards both border Dabaso. They are among the seven wards within Kilifi North constituency. "So today, I declare that I am crossing the floor not in the county assembly but in our ward because of the unity that we want to have in development as a team," Ngome said as he announced his withdrawal from the race. He said he had a lot of respect for the ODM candidate as he has never insulted him during the campaigns. He said his decision to back Karani was personal and not that of Kadu Asili party. He said he would support the ODM team during this campaign and even after the by-election for development. "I urge my supporters to come in large numbers to vote for Dick Karani. I know I am not subjecting them to failure because this is the winning team. Let us join the freedom train and wait for development," Ngome said. Karani said he was happy to get support from the Kadu Asili candidate so they can join hands in the development of the ward. He said their unity will enable him to win and begin the journey for development after the by-election. "On the ground, people have accepted the ODM party and are saying ODM must win, which was the case from the beginning," he said. Peru said Ngome's decision to support the ODM candidate was a show of wisdom and the level of maturity in Kilifi county politics. "We have seen the campaigns being done in accordance with the Covid-19 guidelines set by the Ministry of Health," he said. Nyundo said the youth will be sending a strong message to prove that they can conduct peaceful elections and shun violence. He said it's not easy for one to withdraw from the race after spending funds and resources in his campaign. "We are sending a message to our opponents that the candidates in the by-election were three but now only two are remaining and victory will be for ODM," he said.  