The National Assembly on Friday suffered a setback after the court of Appeal declined to suspend the order quashing 24 bills. In October a three-judge bench ruled that the 24 laws were illegal because they were passed without the input of the Senate. Even though the court suspended the laws, it gave them time to make amends by following the right process when passing the laws. The National Assembly had appealed the judgement asking the court to stay the ruling of the High Court pending the hearing of the appeal. However, Justices Jamila Mohamed, Patrick Kiage and Hannah Okwengu said declined to stay the orders of the lower court and directed the matter to proceed to a full hearing. "Upon perusal of the application and the affidavits together withy the contending submissions, it is evident to us that the application is not only highly contentious and the subject of the orders of the intended appeal are of far-reaching consequences but it is also urgent," the court noted. According to the judges, the case is urgent and will be heard on a priority basis before they issue any orders. The Senate moved to court challenging the decision by the National Assembly to pass laws without their input. This saw the three-judge bench nullified the said laws on grounds that the Speaker of the National Assembly involves his Senate counterpart. “The impugned acts are in contravention of Article 96, 109, 110, 111, 112 and 113 of the Constitution and are therefore unconstitutional, null and void,” the judges ruled. Some of the bills affected include the Computer Cyber Crime Act and Finance Act 2018. “We are properly guided and in the circumstances of this case shall suspend our orders to nullify the impugned acts for a period of nine months within which period the National Assembly ought to have complied with provisions of Article 110 of the constitution and regularized this Acts and in default, they stand nullified,” the court ruled. Justices Jairus Ngaah, Antony Ndungu and Teresiah Matheka unanimously ruled that one speaker cannot unilaterally make a decision to whether a bill does or does not concern counties. But later the National Assembly appealed the judgement asking for orders to stay the execution of the judgment.