Family Bank Half marathon champion Daniel Ebenyo and World Under-18 800m silver medallist Lydia Jeruto will be the key highlights during the second leg of Athletics Kenya (AK) cross country series on Saturday at Koitalel Arap Samoei University in Nandi county. Ebenyo, who won the senior 10km title at the opening leg in Machakos a fortnight ago, is hoping to register his second win in a row ahead of the San Silvestre 10km race in Brazil. His coach Erick Kogo said that Ebenyo has been doing well recently and was keen to use the local races to gauge his speed and form ahead of San Silvestre race on December 31. “These local races especially AK meetings are very competitive hence clever athletes use them to gauge their readiness,” said Kogo. He said it’s only through local performance that one can determine his or her readiness for international stage. “The Silvestre 10km race has attracted top athletes and Ebenyo must be ready if he hopes to post good results,” he added. Jeruto, who has transformed into a 5,000m runner after dominating the 800m will be the key highlight in the women’s 10km race. Jeruto, who trains at Torongo Training camp is likely to face world cross country champion Hellen Obiri who won the opening series in Machakos. Her coach Barnabas Kitilit said he intends to field runners in all categories to ensure they collect good points ahead of the new season. “I have about 10 athletes who will run in Nandi and our agenda is to post good results,” said Kitilit. Fresh from winning the national Under 20 trials reigning Africa 3000m junior bronze medallist Gideon Rono will compete in men’s 8km junior race alongside Emmanuel Kiplagat. Ismael Kurui will compete in 50km while Gilbert Kimunyan is set for 10Km. Host chairman Abraham Mutai said being the first event in the region, they expect top athletes to compete. He said it will be a test run for athletes who have been training since the outbreak of Covid-19 without competing in any race. “Most of the athletes have been training alone and this is the best platform to gauge their readiness considering they have had no race since the outbreak of the Covid-19,”Mutai added. The race will start at 9am with junior men and women races followed by the senior races and mixed relays 