The completion date for the Green Park Bus terminus has been pushed further as the Nairobi Metropolitan Service continues with construction works. NMS director-general Mohammed Badi has blamed design issues and consultation with stakeholders for the delay. “Initially, the park was to be ready by early this month, but we encountered some challenges that slowed down the progress of construction," he said. "However, we expect that by the end of the month, Green Park will be launched since we are at a very advanced stage.” The terminus located at Railways Club will be the drop-off and pick-up point for at least 110 matatus plying the Ngong and Lang’ata routes. This will be functional once the NMS directs all matatu out of the central business district to help in decongestion. Badi told the Star that pulling down the structures at the former Lunar Park consumed a lot of time as it was done by traders. "When we entered the Lunar Park at Railways, some traders, who were onsite like the car sales, had semi-permanent structures, so we negotiated with them to bring them down to avoid damage and they took their time. That's why there was a delay,” he said. NMS officers avoided demolishing the structures themselves knowing they would end up with legal cases in courts. In terms of layout, Badi explained that they wanted a modern design that matches the old Kenya Railways building situated at the terminus. "Kenya Railways being the landowners, the NMS had to negotiate on the final design of the terminus that had to be in sync with the old building design even in colours. There was a challenge in arriving at a neutral design but finally, we agreed," he said. Consultation with stakeholders, including matatu Saccos, also contributed to the delay; the NMS had to engage them on why the CBD will be a no-go zone for them once all termini are completed. "I'm contented that Saccos were pleased with the progress we've made so far and they have encouraged we finish with the termini fast because they want to occupy the spaces,” Badi said. The NMS plans to boost the environment by having garden beds around the terminus, hence the name Green Park. Besides, solar energy will be converted to provide lighting within the terminus. For security purposes, a police station will be set up to ensure the safety of commuters, matatu crews and staff. With about 3,000 people using the terminus daily, the NMS has already constructed a mini dispensary that will offer medical assistance in cases of emergency healthcare needs. "The dispensary is done and we are currently looking for funds to equip it. Once the terminus is launched, the dispensary will be running." A modern restaurant and a mini-supermarket will also be built to offer services to passengers and matatu crews. According to the major-general, the NMS has already advertised for a contract with local supermarkets. Two modern ablution blocks will also be set up—one at the drop-off point and another at the pick-up area. Badi emphasised that they are determined to make the ablution blocks hygienic and user-friendly to everyone, including the physically challenged and children. "With all these plans, you can see why Green Park has delayed being launched. The roads inside have been completed and we are now finishing in setting up the sheds,” he said. Once completed, the Green Park design will be replicated in the other termini that NMS plans to construct along Workshop Road and in Westlands, Landhies–Muthurwa and Globe Roundabout. It will also launch an integrated electronic system in the new termini to be used by matatus and commuters. The digital platform will notify matatu owners when PSVs can make their way to the termini and when commuters can be picked up and dropped off. Edited by F'Orieny