@ppcheti Residents of Hindi in Lamu West on Sunday took to the streets to protest against a rise in defilement and gender-based violence in the area. The protestors disrupted transport on the busy Hindi-Mpeketoni highway and business in the town for hours. The group comprising residents, community and religious organisations marched on the streets carrying placards decrying the rampant sexual abuse. They demanded the speedy arrest of a Kenya Defence Forces officer who is alleged to have married a KCPE candidate from the town. Hindi community activist Nancy Owira accused the authorities of doing little or nothing to stop child defilement and GBV in the region. She urged Parliament to enact tougher laws that will help tame sex crimes. “There are at least two cases of defilement reported in Hindi weekly. We are just annoyed that the police and other concerned offices are not treating this matter with the seriousness it deserves,” Owira said. The activist said the problem has been worsened by allegations that security officers in the area are also culprits in the crime. “Look at the issue of the KDF soldier who eloped with a schoolgirl; we have no confidence that this will end if something doesn’t change,” she said. Hindi sheikh Bwanamkuu Ali said the rise in reckless sexual behaviour among school children in the area is alarming. “It’s discouraging and heartbreaking for a KDF soldier to marry a schoolchild. For a KWS officer to elope with a schoolgirl. For a GSU officer to rape a child and get away with it. Who will fight for the victims here?” Ali asked. A report by the global charity World Vision showed that more than 24 cases of child defilement and gender-based violence have been reported in Lamu in the last two weeks. World Vision's education and child protection officer for Lamu Schollar Mghoi said some fathers have been reported to have defiled their daughters. Some made them pregnant. Mghoi said World Vision is on a campaign to encourage homeschooling for KCPE and KCSE candidates in Hindi. The objective is to minimise their movements and exposure to sexual predators. The charity offers learning resources and teacher support and creates awareness on child safety and protection at the community and county level. The organisation has also been providing free sanitary towels to schoolgirls and those from poor backgrounds. “At the end of the day, we just want to see girls go on with their lives as comfortably as possible,” Mghoi said. A 2018 report by World Vision shoed that over 25 girls had been sexually abused and defiled by their fathers in Hindi between January and May that year. According to a report by the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions in Lamu, Hindi remains the leading area for child defilement cases since 2015. 