The national government has started the construction of a 68km highway that will connect Nyandarua and Murang'a counties. The highway will start at Gatakaini in Gatanga, connect through Kinyona in Kigumo and end at Njabiini in South Kinangop. The Sh3 billion project will be a bypass for commuters from Central to the Rift Valley as it joins Thika Road near Thika town, shortening the journey by hundreds of kilometres. Locals have jumped onto the opportunity provided by the project and have started trading with their Nyandarua counterparts, selling arrowroots and bananas and buying potatoes, carrots and peas in return. Gatanga MP Nduati Ngugi confirmed that the Chinese contractor started construction works in November and is expected to complete the project in three years. "We have, however, agreed that he will fast-track the construction and if possible complete it in one year," the MP said. The highway passes through the Aberdare Forest and follows an earthen route that was previously used by locals on foot and using boda bodas, which put their lives at risk due to its poor state. Nduati said the project will boost tourism in the Aberdare and will rake in revenue for the government while providing opportunities for investors to put up hotels. The road is expected to draw heavy traffic from the Nakuru highway into the region, which will in turn grow the local economy and create jobs. Previously, motorists had to travel through Gatundu in Kiambu or Nairobi to get to the Nakuru highway. "We are asking locals to invest in good restaurants and petrol stations along the road to tap into the new opportunity," Nduati said. Speaking on Monday while inspecting the project, Nduati said the government will also expand the Gatakaini-Gatura-Jogoo-Kimakia road to cope with the traffic from the new highway. Consequently, shopping centres along the route will get a major economic boost, he said, adding that Gatura and Kirwara markets should now be upgraded to foster the inter-county trade. The MP noted that before the upgrade started, land was sold at Sh500,000 per acre but the price has shot up to about Sh4 million. Matatu Saccos are also preparing to ply the route once the road is completed. The MP commended the government for implementing the project, saying it will improve the quality of life of residents. Kariara MCA Karigi Murigi said the road will help streamline transport services in the area and that increased traffic will boost the growth of local shopping centres. "Our farmers will now get a new market for their produce while traders will benefit from inter-county trade that will be provided by the road," he said. Lucy Wamuhu, a trader at Gatura market, said she previously sourced her commodities from Makongeni market in Thika, which made them expensive. Wamuhu said with the shortened distance, it will be possible to acquire the commodities from Nyandarua markets on short notice even using boda boda and get fresh farm produce. “The government has outdone itself. Who would have thought we would get a highway in this part of the country?” Wamuhu said. Samuel Gikonyo, an elder at Kiarutara area, said many leaders have used the road upgrade as a campaign pledge but thanked the government that it is finally being done. In Njabiini town, Eliud Ngotho, an elderly man, told journalists that when Murang’a people used to trade with their Nyandarua counterparts decades ago, rapid growth was experienced. “They brought arrowroots and bananas which don’t grow here and bought cabbages and potatoes. The road will have a major developmental impact in both areas,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori