National government officers have been instructed to ensure all learners return to school on January 4 next year. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i said chiefs and their assistants have the mandate to ensure no child fails to go back when schools reopen. Matiang'i said his ministry and that of Education have put all modalities in place to ensure learning in schools is conducted smoothly. “Chiefs and assistant chiefs whose jurisdictions are very small must ensure they comb all children in their areas to return to school,” Matiang'i said. He spoke during the ground-breaking ceremony for Ida Odinga Library, Research, Innovation and Resource Centre at Ogande Girls High School in Homa Bay Town constituency. Present were Education CS George Magoha, Kenya Films and Classification Board chairman Ezekiel Mutua, PS for Vocational Training Julius Jwan, governors Cyprian Awiti (Homa Bay), Anyang' Nyong'o (Kisumu) and MPs Peter Kaluma (Homa Bay Town), Richard Onyonka (Kitutu Chache), Lillian Gogo ( Rangwe) Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay) and Senator Moses Kajwang (Homa Bay). During the ceremony, Matiang'i expressed concern that parents have neglected their responsibilities. He argued that many parents in Kenya have not given enough attention to what their children do. Matiang'i said he has reports that some 7,200 girls in Homa Bay have been impregnated. “People give a number of excuses about their children after they fail to give proper parenting. We’ll not succeed if we don’t pay attention to what our children do,” he said. Mogaha directed all education officers to work closely with security officers to ensure all learners return to school regardless of their status. He said the government will provide face masks to identified poor and vulnerable learners. “All girls are required in school on opening day even if one is pregnant. You’ll be allowed to go and deliver and return to school at appropriate time,” Magoha said. The Education CS told people who were contracted to make desks for learning in schools to deliver them before reopening day. He said the government had allocated adequate funds, more than Sh1.9 billion, to enable students undertake their studies in schools without a hitch. “Let all the desks be in schools before learning resumes in January. Education officers and head teachers should ensure that is done,” he added. Mutua urged learners to avoid engaging in social activities that may destroy their future. “Various talents can be demonstrated through creativity in our students. Let students focus on academics and creativity for a better future,” Mutua said. Ida urged learners to concentrate on their studies to achieve their academic dreams. “Learners who engaged in gold mining, fishing, masonry and other activities to get money should now start preparing to return to school on reopening day,” Ida said. Edited by Henry Makori