Eleven senior officers at the Kakamega county headquarters have been sacked over corruption-related accusations. The officers, mostly accountants, were sent packing mid-Decemebr 2020. The Star has learnt that those sacked were adversely named in a report by external auditors invited by Governor Wycliffe Oparanya to inspect financial records. The eleven are among 17 officers who had been summoned by the Western region DCI in June last year for questioning over the alleged loss of millions of shillings, but the matter went silent. Those who had earlier been summoned included accountants, chief officers, administrative officers, secretaries, county executive committee members and personal assistants to chief officers. They were to be interrogated over alleged abuse of office, assisting public officers in spending public funds contrary to the Constitution and the Public Finance Management Act, conspiracy to defraud, misappropriation of public funds and conflict of interest. Yesterday, sources within the county treasury told the Star that besides the 11 fired officers, five chief officers and a number of CECs have been served with show cause letters. "It's true the 11 officers were sacked in mid-December and more heads are likely to roll in the coming days," said a source who sought anonymity. In mid-2020, Oparanya warned that anybody who would be adversely mentioned in the audit would be sacked regardless of their status in government. He said some officials had taken advantage of his engagement outside the county as the Council of Governors chairman to engage in graft. The governor also suspended all revenue clerks and supervisors over financial impropriety. He later fired 52 revenue officers. The Council of Governors is pushing to have individual county officers take responsibility instead of governors being pursued for their actions, omissions and commissions. Governors have been pressed hard by the Senate to respond to audit queries in what they term as unfairly targeting them as they are not directly involved in expenditures in their counties and want chief officers to carry their own crosses.