ANC Party leader Musalia Mudavadi has said poor decisions by Kenyans at the ballot box have dearly cost them. Speaking while concluding his Wundanyi tour ahead of the Tuesday by-elections, he said political aspirants must be thoroughly vetted before any decision is made at the ballot box. “We need to interrogate then vote, not vote then interrogate when someone is already occupying an office,” Mudavadi said. The party leader camped in Wundanyi for three days as he drummed up support for ANC candidate Julius Mwalicha Julia in the December 15 Wundanyi/Mbale ward by-election. The seat fell vacant following the death of Beatrice Mwabili, who was the only elected female MCA in Taita Taveta County and held the seat until January this year. Mudavadi who has declared his interest in the presidency come 2022, said in all the by-elections, Kenyans must make wise decisions for a chance of development. He said Kenya is in a transformation stage and needs a leadership that will focus on improving the dwindling economy to enhance job creation and improve the livelihoods of millions of Kenyans. “Kenya’s next president must focus on reviving the economy as the current public debt situation calls for a sober and focused leadership since the country is now facing a huge public debt‚”  he said. The party leader said the Jubilee administration has failed Kenyans during its eight years in power so far as it did not put its priorities right with regards to economic recovery. He told Wundanyi/Mbale residents their choice on Tuesday will dictate their lives for the next two years as they will be put to a litmus test. “Let us not repeat the mistakes we did in 2013 and 2017. If we vote in people who have no vision for transforming the lives of the ordinary Kenyans then we are doomed,” he said. He said the recent political events, including impeachments of Governors in Kiambu and Nairobi, are indications that some of the leaders Kenyans voted in are not servants of the people, but self-centred, selfish leaders who have neglected the people who voted them into power and concentrated on enriching themselves. The Wundanyi/Mbale by-election has attracted at least 14 candidates from various political parties. Voters will also elect new MCAs in Kahawa Wendani in Nairobi county, Kisumu North and Lake View in Kisumu county and Dabaso in Kilifi county. Msambweni residents will also elect a new MP following the death of Suleiman Dori in March this year. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has scheduled the five by-elections for Tuesday.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris.