The crackdown against MCAs allied to Governor Mike Sonko continues with the latest action taken against two of them for non-remittance of their monthly contributions to Jubilee. Nominated MCAs Ruth Ndumi and Beatrice Waithera are said to have defaulted on remitting Sh170,000 each as party subscription since October 2017. Jubilee Nairobi regional director Susan Mugwe reminds each of them in a November 30 letter that non-remittance of dues is contrary to article 13 of the the party constitution and the code of conduct they signed. “Aware of your commitments to the party, which you signed as a first instance together with the code of conduct, note that your action and failure to remit party subscriptions constitute imprudence towards the party. "You are therefore required to make immediate payment of Sh170,000 to the account provided,” the letter states. Ndumi and Waithera should also show cause, in writing within seven days of receipt of the letter, why disciplinary action should not be taken against them. Failure to do so will prompt the party to decide the next course of action against them, Mugwe says in the letters copied to secretary-general Raphael Tuju, chairman of National Disciplinary Committee, Registrar of Political Parties and Majority Whip Paul Kados. Earlier in the week, the party suspended pro-Sonko nominated MCAs Ann Thumbi, Silvia Museiya and Millicent Jagero for three months and dewhipped them from committees for six months. On Friday, the trio appeared before the Muchai Lumatete-chaired disciplinary committee following Kados' complaints against them. Among the accusations are going against the party's position regarding Sonko's memorandum on the Nairobi County Appropriation Bill, 2020 and his refusal to assent to it. The three supported the governor and his refusal to assent to the bill that allocated the Nairobi Metropolitan Services Sh27 billion. They were further accused of undermining the leadership of the party at both national and county levels. The MCAs maintained that the budget issue had been politicised, claiming they were paying the price of rejecting it. They claimed some individuals they did not name were using party positions to promote selfish interests. During the hearing, Museiya said she has been and is still loyal to the party and will continue supporting President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy. “I understand the importance of discipline and loyalty to the party but at the same time this does not negate my constitutional rights,” she noted. She said she actively participated in getting Kados back to power when the assembly was wracked by wrangles. Thumbi claimed she had been summoned because of actively and publicly rejecting the Building Bridges Initiative. The MCAs were accompanied to the disciplinary committee by Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen. The party actions come at a time the county assembly is divided over the impeachment of Governor Sonko. On Tuesday, the Employment and Labour Court prohibited the county assembly from deliberating, tabling for debate, or voting for the removal of Sonko as governor pending inter-parties hearing on Thursday (today). Sonko claims he has affidavits from 62 MCAs saying they did not sign the impeachment motion against him. The pro-impeachment MCAs say they will proceed with their motion, arguing that the stay orders had been wrongly filed at the Employment and Labour Relations Court, instead of the Constitutional Court. Minority Whip Peter Imwatok said the former court has no legal mandate to stop MCAs from impeaching the governor since he is not a County Assembly Public Service Board employee. He said the Supreme Court had set a precedent in the case of Embu Governor Martin Wambora that courts cannot interfere with the operations of an assembly. “The motion before the county assembly touches on the lives of Nairobi residents. This assembly has equal powers to the High Court and in line with this we shall proceed and exercise our constitutional mandate,” Imwatok stated.