Deputy William Ruto allies have painted social media and the country red after the Msambweni by elections win. Independent candidate Feisal Badder won the hotly contested Msambweni by-election beating ODM’s Omar Boga, according to provisional results. At 4am, IEBC tally showed that Feisal had 15,251 votes against Boga's 10,444 votes from all the 129 polling stations. President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM party leader Raila Odinga supported ODMs Omar Boga while Ruto was supporting Badder together with his proponents who campaigned for the politician day and night. Hence, its can be said that Ruto has beaten Raila and Uhuru side. In a statement, Eliud Owalo, a former Raila aide now Ruto ally, says the election outcome has a bearing on the 2022 general elections. "Taking the Msambweni outcome as a Baseline Value, the envisaged results of Kenya's 2022 elections can clearly be projected with certainty and  in totality-entailing the anticipated outputs ,the corresponding performance indicators. and anchored on an elaborate results matrix," he said. "Let the People Decide! And may the Will of the People Prevail!" Nyali MP Mohammed Ali said the hustlers nation has delivered Msambweni and Coast at large from Politics of Conmanship. "This is the rise and fall of ODM in Coast region. 2022 Inshaallah we shall take the battle to their door step," he said. "Safari ya kukomboa Pwani imeanza rasmi! Hatuwezi kubali tena akili ndogo itawale akili kubwa."  Msambweni is likely to add momentum to the Hustler movement, pace it was slowly losing in the face of the DP’s signals on the BBI. This may be accelerated by the fact that the DP never stepped at the constituency to campaign for his supposed candidate. “The hustler nation Msambweni is fired up,” Ruto’s close ally Kimani Ichung’wa (Kiuyu MP) said on Wednesday. “It's a win-win for Jubilee. Those in the headquarters lost as those with the people won,” Soy MP Caleb Kositany said. Earlier, Bader said he will focus on completing the late MP Suleiman Dori's agenda. He said Dori was a great MP who was loved by many and it would be unfair for him to come up with his own agenda's without completing what the late had started. "I want to promise the people of Musambweni that I will fulfill all the promises but during my first days as their MP, I have to see that what my good friend Dori had started is accomplished," he said.