This week a few gender mates have been doing the most to embarrass us yawa. Women have been fighting for years, nay centuries, to be treated like we matter. We have fought for the right to make decisions about our own bodies (imagine that!), we have fought to go to school, we have fought to work, we have fought for security, yani, we have been out here fighting. On Sunday evening I received the viral videos, the ones where two politicians are using rape for political mileage. A violent unlawful sexual act against a person, these two grown-ups decided to make light of it. I am mostly disappointed in the woman politician’s behaviour. You would think she would take a minute and think about what she was saying. Rape has been used to deter women from running for office. There are countless organisations working to see that women who decide to vie for political seats are safe. Then you find one absurd woman who thinks because she has a microphone her mouth can just engage without calling on her brain. Yes, you got the crowd riled up. They clapped and laughed. Maybe even got one or two supporters, and you even entertained countless online. But what have you done to the cause? Years of work and you want to tear it down because you want to one-up an opponent? If someone threatened to rape you, please treat it with the seriousness it deserves, report it and let us fight to make an example of the perpetrator. But you cannot just be fighting to show us how challenged you are when it comes to thinking. This is not to mean that I support the other pig, sorry opponent. Far from that. When two children are on the wrong, you cane yours. My father always said that we should do whatever we wanted to, but before you do anything, really examine the pros and the cons – the consequences – and decide what you can live with. They say only a woman knows the father(s) of her children. I can also see how you might not know the father of your child, especially if it is in the belly. Once the baby is out though, you cannot say you do not know yawa. You might not tell anyone, but you know. You will look at the head, maybe how the baby walks or smiles and you will figure it out. I think the problem we often have is we think if we tell ourselves something often enough, it will become a fact. No amount of self-convincing can make a child belong to someone though, there is biology involved. What really perplexes me (and impresses me even) is the guts involved to demand a DNA test when you know there is one who does not belong. Once the baby is out for a few years, you will know the father. I do not know what she thought she was facing, but she should have gone quietly to ask for a share of whatever there is. I am sure someone would have listened to her. Sadly, the child has found out publicly that the man he knew as a father is not in fact his father. That has to be tough. In this day when information cannot be hidden, I wonder whether that was a move worth making. I mean, she had already seen the harsh side of life to be hawking tubers and porridge, I want to think she had learnt a thing or two to survive better now that the man had gone, even if the family refused to give her a share. (Assuming there is something to share). We are capable of really scaring people, it is good to really think through some actions before carrying them out. Christmas is around the corner, and you know by now how much I hate this holiday. This year I want to try and get involved. Get festive even. I am buying gifts. What useful gift do you get a man, that he would enjoy all year round? Please do not suggest another woman! Let me know. fellyoyuga@gmail.com