At two years old, her parents thought she was a goner. They bought white clothes for her burial and invited a pastor to say the final prayer. She was very sick, grew very thin, could not hold any food down and was in pain.  For two months she was bedridden. But she 'refused to die'. Her parents associated her illness with witchcraft. They later came to learn that she was HIV positive and not bewitched. The girl from Kakamega is now 14 years old and an advocate against stigmatising people living with HIV-Aids. She encourages Kenyans to go for testing. The Standard 8 pupil says being diagnosed with HIV is not a death sentence, because if it were she would have died years ago. On Tuesday, the girl and her mother spoke to the Star during the commemoration of World Aids Day in Kakamega. The mother said her daughter was born just like any other normal baby but two years later, they realised something was amiss with their child’s health. “We had given up hope, and we thought she would not make it. We bought white clothes for her burial and had even invited our pastor who had made final prayers for her. "But God is awesome, and we praise Him for our daughter's life.” The mother said it was when they decided to seek medical advice at St Mary’s Hospital in Mumias that they discovered what their daughter was ailing from. After several tests at the hospital, the two-year-old girl tested HIV positive. She was immediately put on ARVs and was admitted to the hospital for two weeks. “This is the time our eyes were opened and her father and I decided to test for HIV. We both tested positive.” The mother said she never visited the hospital for antenatal check-ups during her pregnancy. She said they revealed to the girl about her HIV status at the age of six years. She said her daughter has been a strong advocate against stigma subject to people living with HIV-Aids. The girl called on both the government and the public not to discriminate against people living with HIV but instead embrace them. “I want to urge the public not to shy away from being tested for HIV because being positive is not a death sentence. You can live a normal life for many years as long as you follow the doctor's advice." She said people living with HIV require psychosocial, medical and financial support to cater to their dietary needs, so they can live a normal life. The teenager is optimistic that she will pass her KCPE exam, proceed to a good high school and study medicine to help those who suffer from such ailments. Her mother urged all mothers to always go to hospital when they are pregnant so as not to make the mistake she made. “I’m very sure that if I had gone for antenatal check-ups, my daughter would not have been infected, but now it has already happened I wouldn’t want any other family to experience what we have been through.” She said her daughter is really supportive and has been reminding them (her parents) to take their medicine on time during school holidays. The girl is in a boarding school. The girl said she discovered she was not the only girl living with the virus as some of her schoolmates are also positive. She said they help each other, especially when it comes to taking their medication. “Parents should not hide children who are HIV positive, instead they should come out and let the children be counselled and introduced to medicine. This is no longer a secret affair.” She has called on the government to procure more Septrin, an antibiotic that helps people living with HIV against opportunistic diseases, since currently the drug is not available. Edited by A.N