A 36-year-old Kisauni woman, Penina Bahati, was so poor and hungry that she boiled stones to soothe her youngest children to sleep. They thought the boiling sound meant they'd wake up to food. The plight of the widow with seven children in Junda area touched the hearts of people everywhere. They donated funds to build her a Sh1.4 million house, furnish it and give her food and supplies. Bahati received the six-room house decorated with balloons on Saturday. She cut the ribbon to enter. Three rooms are for her; three rooms will be rented out. Wearing a new dark blue dress with sparkles, she thanked God and everyone who helped her. “I was almost giving up on life because I had so many problems but I thank God and Kenyans for their generosity,” Bahati said. She thanked her neighbour Korea (Moses Otieno), who took them in while their old house was demolished so the new one could be built. Contractor Eric Panga said construction took six weeks. “I was given  Sh1.2 million but I added Sh200,000 as my personal contribution,”  Panga said. Bahati will occupy three rooms on one side, including a tiled sitting room and two bedrooms; the other three rooms on the other side will be rented out. Rooms rent for Sh1,500 to Sh2,000 per month. The committee formed to help manage Bahati’s funds had problems and some members quit after a misunderstanding. Neighbour Priscah Momanyi, who helped raised the alarm about Bahati's plight on social media, said a new committee was formed in October. The house was delivered. She said there were a lot of problems while the house was being built. “There were a lot of people who had interests in this house for reasons best known to them. But through prayers we were able to push on and finally completed it,” she said. Neighbours helped a lot. Kisauni deputy county commissioner Jamleck Mbuba, who chaired the committee, said no new committee was formed. “At the end of the day, members did not participate as they should. Some left. The few who remained just moved on with the project,” he said on the phone. He said it is good Bahati now has a decent permanent place to call home. Residents are advising Bahati on what business she can start to complement her income from rentals. A shed will be built in her compound where she will do some small-scale business. Edited by Kiilu Damaris