Eldas MP Aden Keynan and Wajir Woman Representative Fatuma Gedi on Sunday clashed over alleged insults. Trouble started when Keynan publicly announced that he had forgiven Gedi for allegedly accusing him of blocking the split of Wajir South into two. The Eldas MP said he regarded Gedi as his younger sister and would never insult her back. “I want to say it here today that recently, I was insulted by my younger sister Fatuma Gedi who said a lot of lies about me. I want to publicly announce that I have forgiven her. When your sister wrongs you, then it is only good that you forgive her. I have no ill feelings against her," Keynan said. Keynan, who spoke during a fundraiser for Al-Nahda Islamic Centre in Tula Tula, Eldas, said he has a close relationship with Gedi’s family and even sponsored her education. “If Mzee Gedi [Fatuma’s father] was around today he would attest to the fact that I'm the one who paid his daughter's school fees right from secondary to university.” But Gedi took to her Facebook page to tell off Keynan. “Adan Keynan should stop lying to the public. His lies are extremely pungent and annoying. I want to put it straight on record that Adan Keynan has never paid for my school fees,” her post read. “My father was a high-ranking administration officer. Through his combined efforts and that of my brothers, I got schooled without even needing bursaries. I'm glad that my dad is alive and kicking if he needs a testimony.” Last week, Wajir South Professionals Association (WASPA) appealed to President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga to split Wajir South constituency into two. Association secretary-general Ahmed Diriye said Wajir South is about 23,000 square kilometres, hence larger than Central, Nairobi, and western regions combined. “Wajir South is 48 per cent of the Wajir county landmass and the second-largest constituency in the republic after North Horr of Marsabit county, exceeding the population variable for it to be split,” Diriye said. They said the last time the constituency was split was in 1948 when Wajir District was split into South and North. Edited by A.N 