Four businessmen who allegedly attempted to extort a rival have been charged with conspiracy to defraud. Apollo Nyabuto, Washington Jefa, Moses Odwar and Daniel Oreng' were on Friday arraigned before Makadara principal magistrate Stephen Jalang’o to answer three counts of conspiracy to defraud. In the first count, they were accused of conspiracy to obtain money from James Oyugi between August 20, and 27, 2018, within Nairobi county. They allegedly threatened to cause him to be arrested and charged for engaging in corrupt practice. In the second count, they are accused of impersonating a person employed in the National Police Service and threatening to arrest Oyugi after accusing him of running an insurance brokerage company purported to have been engaged in corruption. In the third count, they are accused of attempting to extort money from Oyugi after they threatened to report him to ethics and anti-corruption commission for running an insurance brokerage company while in employment. They pleaded not guilty to all counts. According to court documents, on August 20, Oyugi was in his office when Nyabuto went to see him, and introduced himself as a businessman. He claimed to have been sent by a police officer who was investigating Sh2.5 million that was channeled into his bank accounts. The said officer claimed to have completed investigations but wanted to talk with Oyugi before forwarding the file to the anti-corruption office. On August 22, Oyugi received a call from Oreng, who informed him about the same issue. He said that a friend who knew the police officer on the case could connect them for a meet-up. They agreed to meet on August 27 at Ole Sereni Hotel to discuss the issue. Instead, Oyugi called genuine police officers from the Industrial area police station, who accompanied him and arrested the alleged imposters. The matter had come up for hearing but the charge sheet was amended and the defence asked for more time to go through the statements. The four were freed on a cash bail of Sh50,000 with a bond of Sh 200,000. The matter will be heard on April 1.