The swearing-in ceremony of Nairobi County Assembly Speaker Benson Mutura as the acting governor has been postponed to a further date. This comes after Justice Jairus Ngaah who was meant to preside over the swearing-in arrived after 2:00 pm. “As an Assembly, we respect the law and according to the time we cannot continue with the swearing-in,” said Peter Imwatok, Minority Whip. As per the law oath or affirmation of a governor shall be administered not earlier than 10:00 am and not later than 2:00 pm. The Assumption Of The Office Of County Governor Committee had been formed and gazetted in the morning ahead of the swearing ceremony. The committee is chaired by Justus Kathenge who is the County Secretary. He said the new date of the swearing-in ceremony will be announced at a later date. Imwatok explained that the Judge had been notified of the event in the morning. “ The Judge was not within Nairobi and had to fly in for him to get here. But unfortunately, despite him making an effort, he arrived at Charter Hall just after 2:00 pm,” he said. Upon his arrival, the judge had been received by the county assembly leadership lead by Majority Leader Abdi Hassan, his counterpart Minority leader Michael Ogada and Deputy Speaker Geoffrey Majiwa. The judge proceeded and made his way to the podium and took a seat. However, he shortly left the hall leaving everyone in suspicion. At this juncture, Kathenge, Assembly leadership and Speaker Mutura appeared to be consulting in low voices before the announcement to postpone the ceremony was made. All County Executive Members inclusive of the County Attorney and Chief Officers had arrived at the event by 10:00 am. MCAs and members of the public were also present in the event where Covid -19 preventative measures were observed. Also present was the legal counsel led by lawyer Ndegwa that represented the County Assembly before the senate. Other familiar faces included politicians Brian Were, former mcas and councilors and former Education Cec Janet Ouko who was a key witness in Sonko’s impeachment. Mutura was to be sworn in as governor in an acting capacity for the next 60 days before Nairobians go to the ballot to elect another city boss. This comes after former governor Mike Sonko was impeached. Sonko lost his seat on Thursday night after majority of the senators voted to uphold all the four charges levelled against him by city MCAs. Some 27 legislators voted in favour of each of the charges thus surpassing the Constitutional threshold of 24 votes needed to remove the governor from office. Sixteen senators voted to oppose each of the charges with two lawmakers – Mutula Kilonzo Jr (Makueni) and Johnson Sakaja (Nairobi) - opting to abstain from the vote. The embattled governor was accused of gross violation of the constitution or any other law, abuse of office, gross misconduct and crimes under national law. Sonko becomes the second governor to be impeached by the senators after Martin Wambora (Embu) and Ferdinand Waititu (Kiambu). However, Wambora escaped impeachment after the courts quashed his removal. Waititu, on the other hand, failed to secure an injunction and was successfully removed from office. Sonko has been running the county government without a deputy after Polycarp Igathe resigns in January 2018. There was a heavy police presence around city hall as the swearing ceremony of Mutura was set to kick off.