The National Environment Management Authority has entered into a partnership with Planning Systems Services Limited to restore the lost glory of the Nairobi City. The project, dubbed Nairobi Rivers Regeneration, has proposed a number of interventions among them the clean-up of Nairobi rivers, secure water supply, re-greening of the city with new public parks and public open spaces and decongesting the city by improving connectivity. Other interventions include identification of land for mix use, mixed income developments, including low income housing, and affordable kiosks. The partnership also seeks to enable the expansion of Nairobi Central Business District, create jobs and businesses during construction and develop walk ways and cycle ways. Planning Systems Services specialises in architecture and land use planning. It also seeks to have urban agriculture, non-motorised movement network, parks of knowledge, wetland parks, Nairobi cultural quarter, Nairobi central park, water reservoirs, river learning centres, urban biogas, community cookers and local markets. Nairobi City was previously described as green city in the sun, a status it has lost over the years. The water way, for instance, was a few decades ago sparkling clean and populated with fish, water beetles, dragon flies and other fresh water creatures. It is a different story today, although efforts are underway to clean the rivers. Nema director general Mamo Mamo says the clean-up has borne fruits. Mamo, however, identified four main challenges that bedeviled the river. These include informal settlements dotting the river basin and discharging raw sewer into the river, dysfunctional sewer lines, poor solid waste management and lack of public awareness on keeping the environment clean. "We have engaged members of the public to change their attitude towards the environment. We have also tasked the Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company to fix trunk lines. Nairobi Metropolitan Services has also started working on new sewerage system in the informal settlements," Mamo said. On solid waste management, Mamo said all the 168 illegal disposal sites have been mapped out. "NMS has developed an action plan to remove all the waste," he said. Initially, the authority had flagged 148 polluters of Nairobi River. Mamo said they have since been stopped from discharging into the river. "We have 100 environmental inspectors, including 20 Nema police officers, who carried out a crackdown on illegal discharges," he said. Mamo said new species of birds, including mad fish, can now be found in Nairobi River within Michuki Memorial Park. The new partnership, according to Mamo, will have social, environmental and socio-economic benefits. This includes access to clean water, secure and safe public spaces, improved air quality, clean, healthy, beautiful and well-managed environment, improved land use and property values, distribution of opportunities among underserved neighborhoods and reduced travel time, among others. He said the authority will internally generate funds that will go towards the face lift but did not say how much is needed. 