The trial of the two rugby players charged with raping a musician has hit a snag five months after the accused took a fresh plea. This is after Frank Wanyama the first accused in the case made an application before the trial court seeking to suspend the hearing. Wanyama who is charged alongside Alex Olaba says Justice Ngenye Macharia who ordered for a retrial abused the law in her determination of his appeal. Through lawyer Pravin Bowry, Wanyama told senior resident magistrate Zainab Abdul that she should stay the proceedings and refer the case to the High Court. "Unless this matter is referred to the High Court, the re-trial will inevitably result in extreme prejudice with the further consequence of abuse of the process of the court characterised by an oppressive infringement of his right to a fair trial,” Bowry said. The lawyer told the court they have also filed before Court of Appeal a notice challenging the decision by Justice Ngenye and the application for stay is pending before that court. Wanyama is apprehensive that the trial will lead to another conviction based on the findings of the High Court which ruled that he indeed had non-consensual sex with the victim even though the evidence was not sworn. He also argues that based on the doctrine of precedence in which decision of superior courts are binding on lower courts, it is highly unlikely that the magistrate's court will depart from the determination already made by the High Court on the substance of the evidence. “From the foregoing it is manifestly clear that the tenor of the High Court judgment was that the alleged sexual intercourse between the accused and the victim was not consensual,” the court heard. Bowry further argues that in making the determination, Justice Ngenye inadvertently convicted Wanyama of the offence solely on the unsworn evidence of the victim which the judge had ruled was a miscarriage of justice. "Ngenye ordered for a re-trial only because from the record there was nothing to show that the victim ever took oath when she testified." In her ruling, Ngeye said even though she limited her deliberation, it was apparent in the evidence by the prosecution that there was sexual relation between the victim and Wanyama adding that she had no doubt that the intercourse was not consensual. She declined to acquit them as the defence had applied saying from the evidence shown by the prosecution, the sex was not consensual. State counsel Evelyne Onunga opposed Wanyama's application, telling court that it was a waste of judicial time. “The pre-empting of the outcome of this fresh case goes against the spirit of judgment of Justice Ngenye who by all bounds ought to be respected,” Onunga said. She also said no evidence has been tendered to show that the judgment of the High Court was in any way made on outrageous evidence. “It is my contention that the defence cannot reap benefits of the appeal and at the same time challenge the benefits gained,” she said. Onunga also noted that an abuse of court process by the High Court is not a matter to be determined before the trial court The court was also urged to consider the victim based on the fact that trauma falls on her more than the accused. The court will determine whether to stay the case on December 15.