A funeral in Bungoma on Tuesday turned chaotic after supporters of two Ford-Kenya factions engaged in fistfights and hurled abuse at each other. Mourners and family members were left in utter shock and disbelief as supporters of Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula and those allied to Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi hurled plastic chairs at each other and exchanged blows. The funeral of Bungoma Maendeleo ya Wanawake chairlady Jane Lunyolo Wachie was halted for about an hour as supporters of the two camps clashed. Leaders present included Wetang'ula, Bungoma Deputy Governor Charles Ngome, Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka and Bungoma Woman Rep Catherine Wambilianga. Others were Bumula MP Mwambu Mabongah, Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa, MCAs and county government officials. During the fracas, Deputy Governor Ngome was forced to flee from the event. Trouble started when Musikoma MCA George Makari took to the podium and lashed out at Governor Wycliffe Wangamati's administration, saying it was not living up to residents' expectations. "It is time we changed this leadership that does not have the interests of residents at heart come 2022,"he said. Musikoma's sentiments did not go down well with Wangamati's supporters who became unruly and stopped the MCA from addressing the mourners. Following this, Wetang’ula's supporters swung into action and began fighting those of Wangamati. When the fracas ended, Wetang’ula said he was still in charge of Ford-Kenya. "Ford-Kenya party is intact and under my care. There is no cause for alarm as the coup plotters have failed in their evil moves," he said. He said he is not in any way interested in being governor but will continue to play his oversight role of ensuring cash allocated to the county is prudently used. "I'm not Napoleon Bonaparte who in 1847 took the crown of the pope and put it on his own head claiming he was the new pope," he said. On the BBI, the senator said now that 35 per cent of revenue will be allocated to counties, more functions will have to be devolved as resources must follow functions. He urged residents to read the document and support it as it's the only solution to the many problems bedevilling the country.