After parting ways with John Baraza, the 2009 champions Sofapaka are set to unveil Harambee Stars assistant coach Ken Odhiambo as their new manager. A poor start of life in the new season yesterday claimed Baraza’s scalp as the club send him packing with his rank taken by his assistant Mike Mururi albeit on interim basis pending the arrival of Odhaimbo from Bandari. Baraza was appointed as the club’s full time manager in December last year after serving as a stand-in coach thrice but his decade-long stay at the club both as a player and a leader in the technical bench ended yesterday courtesy of the two losses suffered in the opening three rounds of the season. "We have asked coach Baraza to step aside as we plan to take him for further studies either in Norway or Germany. For now, Mururi is in charge of the team as we prepare for our next match against Kariobangi Sharks and we will announce the new head coach anytime from tomorrow," said Sofapaka president Elly Kalekwa. The club, also known as 'Batoto Ba Mungu' were touted as potential title contenders, thanks to the quality of players they signed in the past transfer window. The Betika-sponsored club broke the bank for renowned players among them Stars'holding midfielder Lawrence Juma, former national U23 skipper Michael Kibwage, experienced midfielder Roy Okal and highly-rated goalkeeper Kevin Omondi. Despite spending big in the transfer market to beef up the squad, the former Shield Cup holders find themselves in a unfamiliar territory on the log after garnering three points out of a possible nine. A 3-0 loss in the hands of AFC Leopards last weekend in an encounter dubbed ‘Cats Derby’ proved costly as the club president Elly Kalekwa dropped his long serving lieutenant and instead procured the services of Odhiambo, a Caf level 'A' license holder. “I can confirm that Odhiambo will be our next head coach. However, I am not in a position to reveal how long he will be with the team,” said a senior member in the club who sought anonymity. Odhiambo, who returned to Bandari in February after spending two years in Sudan, where he was studying sports management will launch his bid to steady the Sofapaka ship against the unbeaten Kariobangi Sharks next weekend at the Wundanyi Stadium. Apart from dropping Baraza, the club also rung changes in the technical bench after demoting their physical trainer  Diallo Kwasi and second assistant coach Martin Ndagano to the youth team.