Nairobi governor Mike Sonko has suffered a blow after Senate speaker threw away his application to halt the ongoing hearing citing unlawful procedures by the county assembly. Lusaka has also rejected Sonko's plea to strike out the case on the basis that some allegations raised touch on cases currently active in courts. This comes even as the speaker allowed MCAs to admit at most three new witnesses to testify against the Governor. The ward reps had applied to have the Senate summon 11 witnesses among them commissioner general of prisons. "Having perused the request which is on record, I will allow the county assembly to summon not more then three witnesses excluding the Governor and the Commissioner General, Prisons Service," Lusaka said. "While the predictability of this order may pose challenges , it should be noted that the hearing is for two days and this request must be made at the hearing." Concerning the Governors's application to strike out the case on grounds of procedural impropriety or non-compliance of laws at the county assembly proceedings, the speaker ruled that the application requires evidence. "The Senate can only make a fair determination having heard the evidence in both sides. This is the essence of this investigation.This investigation before senate is both in respect of procedural as well as substantive matters," he said. On the issue of subjudice, he said that it is it an absolute rule for the Senate as stipulated by standing order 98 (5) of the Senate. Earlier, Sonko discredited charges levelled against him, terming them flimsy, inaccurate and witch-hunt thus dead on arrival. Through lawyer Harrison Kinyanjui, Sonko pleaded with the senators to throw away the case, adding that it does meet the threshold of removing him from office. He said the charges are allegations aimed anchored on witch-hunt and malice and should therefore be thrown out. He was responding to MCAs who said Sonko is rogue, extravagant and plunderer of public resources and should go home. Through their lead lawyer Ndgewa Njiru, the ward reps claimed that Sonko has failed the leadership and integrity tests and brought disrepute to the office governor. “He has not only violated article 6 of the Constitution and acted in a manner that is sumptuous to the people of Kenya,” Njiru said.