Coast Human rights activists have raised alarm over alleged increased harassment of their colleagues by security officers. Mombasa, Kwale, and Lamu were cited to be leading in the vice. The activists said several people have been forced to go to safe houses for fear of their lives. Muslims for human rights rapid response officer Francis Auma, said threats have now become part of their lives. He said some activists are currently under protection after receiving warnings from people believed to be police officers. “This year alone we have thrice taken people to safe houses and no doubt security personnel are involved,” he said. He said in the previous years, similar cases were also reported and the vice is growing roots. Auma said sometimes while in the line of duty police physically assault them. The Muhuri officer said police oftentimes take advantage of the absence of the media to terrorize the activists. “Last week in Lamu, we were almost shot by some officers when they went for a fact-finding mission and it took the intervention of the Witu OCS to free themselves‚” he said. Auma said the Lamu incident is one of the many predicaments they have to endure in their duties. He said the frequent threats have become a major hindrance in pursuing justice. The activist said anytime could be their last because each day they handle a case they get endangered. Most activists normally intimidated are the ones pursuing cases of extrajudicial killings, enforced human disappearances, defilements, and security-related matters. The activists said the people who harass them are either in police uniforms or armed like cops. Haki Africa field officer Mathias Shipeta called for activist's protection from the government. He condemned the way the rights defenders are intimidated. Shipeta said they will not be frightened by the threats and vowed to pursue each case until fairness and justice is found. Other rights organizations that have criticized the vice include, Uhaki na Usawa, Kilifi Social Justice, Sister for Justice, among others. Their sentiments come some weeks after one of the rights officers in Kinango was taken to safety after receiving life-threatening signals over the case he was handling.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris