Some 8,114 final-year students at Kenya Medical Training College whose learning was disrupted by Covid-19 missed out on the institution's 88th graduation held virtually on Thursday. Some 4,114 graduands were conferred with certificates, diplomas and higher diplomas during the ceremony held from Nairobi. Of these, 348 graduated with higher diplomas, 2,733 with diplomas and 1,033 with certificates. Graduands followed proceedings online, with only a few guests allowed to the graduation square in Nairobi. The college management plans to have a special graduation ceremony once the college is reopened next year and the courses completed. “To reduce the burden of treatment emanating from late diagnosis, we continue to attach our students to rural health facilities where we spread over 51,000 hours weekly on community diagnosis and treatment,” KMTC boss Michael Kiptoo said. KMTC contributes 85 per cent of the local mid-level health workforce. The college opened new campuses in Mandera, Sigowet, Imenti, Taveta and Mbooni this year, raising the centres to 71 spread across 43 counties. “KMTC remains a major exporter of the health work force with our graduates working in far off countries in Europe, Australia and the USA. This means we are directly contributing to national development through diaspora remittances and investments,” Kiptoo said. Health CAS Rashid Aman reiterated the government’s commitment to increase the number of healthcare workers to meet demand and improve the ratio of medics to patients. “Being a strategic government health training institution, KMTC plays an important role in propelling the country towards the attainment of specific health-related targets, including Universal Health Coverage and sustainable development goals,” Aman said. “I commend the college for moving with speed and integrating Covid-19 infection prevention and control protocols in training, a curricular which has also been used to train community health assistants and community extension workers on the management of the pandemic.”