Empty beds and waiting bays continued to be witnessed across the country for the 16th day as striking health workers refused to back off. Patients who showed up at health facilities to try their luck were left stranded as nurses, clinicians and now doctors stayed away from work. Pumwani Hospital, the largest maternity facility in the region, usually delivers an average of 80 to 120 babies every day. But most mothers showing up for delivery were turned away and told to go to Kenyatta National Hospital. “I came here because I am in labour but I have been told to go to KNH. It is stressing because I don’t know how I will get there since the money I have is not enough to transport me,” a young mother said. Fatuma Ali, on the other hand, had brought her pregnant daughter to the facility. Her daughter was due to deliver on Monday. The two were greeted with the same situation. “They have told me there is no doctor and that I have to take my daughter to Kenyatta. How will you feel as a parent? I feel pained. If you have to shed tears in a government hospital like this then may God help us,” Ali said. Despite more than six meetings between the government and the union officials, no solution has been found. “We were to hold a meeting and they said that we wait for the CS to come, as well as the chair of governors. But after waiting for long we were informed that they are not coming and the meeting aborted so this shows that the government is not committed to solving the crisis which is going on,” Kenya Union of Clinical Officers secretary-general George Gibore said. The health workers, through their union officials, have vowed to stay put until all their grievances are addressed. But Council of Governors chairperson Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega) has maintained that the issues the healthcare workers have raised do not involve the counties, warning that they will remove the striking medics from their payrolls and hire new health workers. “It is quite unfair. There are issues that have nothing to do with county governments. If they are issues to do with the national government let the national government deal with them,” Oparanya said. "Since they have decided to go on strike we, as counties, must also take stern action against them. We will remove them from payroll and recruit other healthcare workers.” The strikers demand PPE, Covid-19 isolation centres for medics, comprehensive medical cover, and enhanced risk allowance. Other grievances include the establishment of a constitutional health service commission, hiring of an additional 10,000 health workers — 3,000 clinicians and 2,000 doctors — and making terms for contracted doctors permanent and pensionable. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has threatened those on strike that they will be sacked should they fail to report back to work. “As we continue to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, I wish to thank all those health workers who have continued to render their services and chosen not to punish or abandon their compatriots at their hour of need,” Kagwe said in a statement on Monday. But the medical staff said it is better to stay at home and be alive than embark on a suicide mission. "Doctors’ lives matter, safety and protection of the frontline soldiers must be a national priority. If doctors will die, let them die with dignity and honour,” doctors' union secretary general Chibanzi Mwachonda said. On Monday, the unions called off the strike that was going on among the healthcare workers under the national government after a court order directed the strike be suspended for 14 days. The strike began on October 29. Nurses and clinical officers went on strike over lack of promotions and job re-designations. Other unions that were taking part in the strike include the Kenya Health Professionals Society, the Kenya National Union of Laboratory Officers, the Kenya National Union of Pharmaceutical Technologists and the Kenya Union of Nutritionists and Dieticians. The strike had affected all port health facilities, including airports, border points and all points of entry, the National Spinal Injury Hospital, Mathari Hospital, Othaya Hospital, the National Blood Bank, the National Public Health Laboratories and all other facilities served by members under the Ministry of Health. 