Is an influential Nairobi politician bidding for a comeback should Senators vote to impeach Mike Sonko (pictured)as governor? Well, the man with deep pockets is increasingly shoring up his profile after being out the cold for a while. He was recently spotted at a devolution meeting attended by President Uhuru Kenyatta, eliciting talk that he could be angling for the city-county governor's job. A little bird whispers to Corridors that much as the politician may have attended the event for business prospecting, his attempts to catch the President's eye betrayed his intentions. Did an MP from Nyanza region chicken out after boasting he had been appointed the regional coordinator for the BBI signature collection efforts? The lawmaker suddenly disappeared from the centre of the signature collection efforts and even missed the grand finale at Daraja House where ODM leader Raila Odinga officially received more than r 5.2 million signatures. It has now emerged that the dwindling popularity of the MP, who is said to be keen in running for governor in one of the counties, informed his go-slow. It is only a matter of time before he finds the ground is too hostile for him,  as a senior ODM leader is making thorough inroads in the county to turn the tables on him. A governor was recently left dumbfounded. Reason? The county chief had organised a football tournament but the youths participating in the league showed up wearing kits branded with the name of the man he unseated. The growing popularity of a former governor alarmed his successor. Every attempt by the current county chief to win over the electorate seems to hit a brick wall, a problem that has confounded his allies. Word in the county is that the former governor will be re-elected without breaking a sweat if he seeks to reclaim his former seat. It is his to lose. An influential Jubilee Party member who has of late remained a bystander in the Building Bridges process, despite his initial bravado, could threaten the fortunes of the initiative in Nairobi. The politician who craves publicity was key in the initial stages of the Building Bridges Initiative until things fell apart. The politician who has strong grassroots networks in the capital city is said to have told his aides that he has made a strategic decision to step back because the BBI proponents have not been appreciating and recognising his efforts especially in mobilising people in the city. His move, some politicians opine, could puncture the BBI momentum in Nairobi as the train hurtles towards a referendum.