Nurses and clinical officers in Machakos county have been urged to resume duty as some of their grievances have been settled. Health executive Ancent Kituku said on Tuesday that the only demands that have not been met are those that need the intervention of the national government. "All the issues that required to be done by the Machakos county government have  been done. We urge their union national leaders to consider counties that have been compliant and allow workers to resume duty," Kituku said. He spoke at Machakos Level 5 Hospital. Nurses and clinical officers working in public hospitals began their strike on Monday. They want several demands met before they go back to work. The demands include the provision of a comprehensive medical cover, provision of a Covid-19 treatment facility dedicated to health workers, promotions, provision of protective gear and payment of allowances. Kituku said the county has set up a dedicated health isolation centre at the Kangundo Level 5 Hospital. "The issue of comprehensive group cover is already covered in Machakos county and the medical cover is done through the NHIF," he said. Kituku said health workers in Machakos had no arrears since they had already received their November salaries and the county is processing the December payment. "We held meetings with both unions [clinical officers and nurses unions] on Monday and Tuesday, and we agreed that they don't need to go on strike since the county has complied with their concerns," he said. "But then there are issues which require government policy and have to be handled at the national level. The unions agreed that they will consult with their national officials first." Kituku said contracted staff and medical officers seconded through UHC and the county management team were still serving at health facilities in the county. He said those critically ill and those seeking maternity services were being served. However, the Star found out that since Monday there had been no services being offered at the county health facilities. Patients were seen stranded at the Machakos Level 5 Hospital. Nursing mothers and pregnant women at the Mother Child Health department had no one to attend to them. Edited by A.N