Kirinyaga county has made significant progress in improving forest cover since the year began. About half a million trees have been planted so far, according to county conservator Monica Masibo. This has been made possible through different exercises under different programmes. The drives include farm and dryland forest programme that targeted private conservancies; the national tree planting campaign; the green zone development support plantation establishment programme run by the Kenya Forest Service; and the forest conservation management implemented by the service in partnership with sector players, including environmentalists. The species planted under the programmes were indigenous, exotic and fruit trees. Masibo hailed the programmes for having played a major role that will contribute to the achievement of the government-projected 10 per cent forest cover by 2022. She further called on the communities living in areas where the seedlings are grown to be responsible and tend them so they can reap the benefits with time. Masibo spoke in Mt Kenya forest in Thumaita, Kirinyaga county, during a tree planting exercise. They partnered with Equity Bank and the local community to plant 23,000 trees. “Under the exercise, 18,000 indigenous assorted seedlings have been planted in the midst of other growing trees, while 5,000 exotic seedlings will be given to the community living at the peripheral parts of the forest to plant within their lands,” she said. The site was previously not under cultivation. It was a natural forest but its trees were felled. Equity's Kerugoya branch manager Simon Kanyingi said the programme is part of the corporate social responsibilities that the organisation rolled out last year while marking 35 years of existence. "As a way to celebrate a major milestone in the banking sector, we did promise while commemorating 35 years in service, to plant 35 million tree seedlings. In the over 190 branches, each is supposed to undertake a tree planting exercise of 23,000 seedlings. “We are glad to be part of an exercise meant to steer environmental conservation to greater heights,” he said. He added that the site chosen was suitable as many tea factories nearing the forest had switched to trees as a source of fuel, hence the need to sustain the forest.