Maragua MP Mary Waithera wants the DCI to summon and question an MCA who has accused her of mismanaging CDF cash. Ichagaki MCA Charles Mwangi had lashed out at the MP for failing to implement development projects in some areas, inflating projects’ costs and leaving some projects incomplete. The two have been embroiled in a tussle over projects, with each claiming to have lobbied for the upgrade of several roads in the ward. On December 8, Mwangi petitioned the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to investigate the CDF office over alleged irregularities that he said cost residents millions of shillings. But in protest, the MP also wrote to Maragua subcounty DCI office, dismissing the accusations as false and aimed at soiling her image. Waithera on Wednesday said the MCA has occasionally accused the CDF office of misappropriation, misrepresentation and unfair distribution of projects in the constituency. She said the accusations amounted to defamation. "In this regard and in keeping with the constitutional right to access accurate and verifiable information, I humbly request your office to summon the MCA to present tangible evidence for each accusation,” the MP told the detectives in a letter. She said she is also ready to be investigated and intends to sue the MCA  for "maligning my office". Mwangi claimed he lobbied for the upgrade of Gathunguri Mugumo-ini and Kamucheru Maisha Mathi roads. But the MP dismissed the MCA and wondered how he could visit national government offices to lobby for projects that do not fall under the Murang'a county government. Waithera commissioned the roads in October, but Mwangi later announced that he was just planning to launch them and that the MP had hijacked his plans. The MP said though she had condoned the MCAs’ attacks thus far, she will not let him continue defaming her and downplaying her work. Waithera spoke during a meeting with captains of local football clubs. They deliberated on how to use about Sh2.5 million that had been set aside for sports in the 2019-20 financial year. Sporting activities, like those in other sectors, were hampered by the Covid-19 crisis that prompted movement restrictions and the imposition of social distancing, among other control measures. “We received the sports funds late 2019 and we had not utilised it when the pandemic got into the country,” she said, adding that she wanted the youth to agree on the best ways to use the funds. The players agreed to have the funds used to level pitches and have each team provided with a full football kit. The constituency has more than 84 men football teams and several others for women.