Deputy President William Ruto and his allies have said the gazetted BBI Bill 2020 has captured more issues compared to the report that was earlier launched at the Bomas of Kenya. Addressing the media on Wednesday after a meeting that was attended by 146 MPs, seven governors among other invited leaders, the leaders said that the document has raised issues affecting common Kenyans. “Significant progress was made between Bomas 2 and KICC and the amendment Bill adopted major inputs of stakeholders in fairly explicit terms,” part of the statement read. While reading a part of the statement, Meru Senator Mithika Linturi said that the gazetted document is a positively progressive development. Linturi said it would have been impossible to proceed with the Bomas document without the important sectors, adding that the constituencies that would have been overlooked have been vindicated in the gazetted document. “It is emphatically clear that the issues, concerns, and the interest of the ordinary people have found their way to the main table and are part of the national conversation.” The proposal on the inclusion of the political party representation in the electoral body through the appointment of commissioners has been abandoned in the gazetted bill, compared to what was launched in Bomas. "The problematic idea of police council being headed by a cabinet minister has been abandoned. The independence of the police service has therefore been retained." The independence of the police service has also been spared from the constitutional amendment bill. Earlier on, the document had proposed that the NPSC be replaced by Kenya Police Council to end wrangles between the IG and the commission. The council had been set to be responsible for policy coordination of the National Police Service and perform any other function prescribed by national legislation. Also, the proposed 70 nominated seats have been converted to representative electoral seats. "A nominated seat would have benefited the individual nominee and encourage political interference and manipulation of parliament." They added that the proposals that would have undermined the roles of the Senate have been abandoned, saying that the roles of the Senate are vital for the governance of the country. The team has said that they are still pushing for further changes to the gazetted document in order to avoid a contested referrednum.