Elders in Mbeere South have called for government intervention in the three-decade long land adjudication dispute. Nyangi Ndiiriri Council of Elders said most residents of Wachoro, Riakanau, Makima and Karaba areas that sit on 72,000 acres don’t know who the bona fide owner of each parcel is, leaving them confused. Council of elders chairman Andrew Ireri said agricultural officers have over the years been allocating 10 acres to people to farm and if they fail to plant in six months, the land is allocated to someone else. “Such allocations have caused every piece of land to have multiple owners with documents. Other people have forcibly been evicted,” Ireri said. Speaking to the press at Nembure accompanied by vice chairman Linus Kinyua, secretary Patrick Kamwega and residents who have been evicted, Ireri said the dispute has led to bloody confrontations. He warned that if not handled, the dispute is a time bomb which threatens the security of the area. Ireri said that due to the evictions, old people in their 60s and 70s have been forced to rent houses elsewhere. So far, he said, over 280 people who have been displaced are seeking government intervention. He said the council has written to President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene and have the matter investigated so that it can be defined who owns which land and title deeds be awarded. Ireri said out of the four sections titles have only been issued to Wachoro adjudication section a year ago in a ceremony presided over by Deputy President William Ruto and that even then, disputes did not end . He called on the President to order thorough investigation into the issue so that people can develop their parcels. Ireri further called for redistribution of the land into smaller pieces so that all those who were allocated the land for farming by the government are settled to end further disputes. He lamented that most of the people in Mbeere South subcounty are frustrated as there are numerous disputed parcels without titles. including the Mwea settlement schemes, which are yet to be resolved.