The National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC) has vowed to take stern action against politicians “who will break the rules” during the forthcoming by-elections. The commission’s chairperson Samuel Kobia said NCIC had learned “very valuable “lessons in the just concluded by-election in Msambweni, which was marred with obscenities during the campaign period. “The Msambweni by-election is still very fresh on our minds. We analysed every detail of it and we will use lessons learnt during by-elections in Matungu, Kabuchai, Nairobi and Machakos,” he said. Speaking on Wednesday his office in Nairobi, Kobia promised to punish politicians who will threaten good relations and peaceful co-existence of persons of different ethnic and racial communities as they hunt for votes. Kobia said politicians who will incite people against each other will pay the price. “We have always been told that we are a dog that cannot bite. I want to assure Kenyans that we will not just be summoning those who will go against the law, we will be taking action against them as well,” he stated. He urged politicians to exercise restraint as the campaign for their respective candidates. “Politicians must hunt for votes within the law. We will not spare anyone,” he vowed. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission is preparing for a by-election in Nairobi County and Matungu constituency. Nairobi residents will head to the polls on February 18, 2021, to elect another governor following the impeachment of Mike Sonko. The campaigns in the run-up for the Nairobi seat will start on January 18, 2021 and end on February 15, 2021. On the other hand, the electoral agency set March 4, 2021, as the date for the Matungu Constituency by-election to be held alongside five ward mini-polls. IEBC is waiting for Machakos and Kabuchai seats to be declared vacant following the deaths of Boniface Kabaka and James Mukwe Lusweti respectively. NCIC recently summoned ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna and Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa Sifuna to record statements over vulgar remarks they made during the Msambweni by-election campaigns. The two were asked to appear in person, failure to which, NCIC would institute contempt proceedings against them. Sifuna appeared before the commission on Monday while Jumwa presented herself on Tuesday. They both apologised for the remarks and promised to exercise restraint in future. Leaders have since expressed concern that the Kabuchai parliamentary by-election would be chaotic following recent clashes of Ford-K supporters at a church service. Worshippers had to scamper for safety when rival groups turned the church into a battlefield. Kwanza MP Ferdinand Wanyonyi who was the chairman parliamentary committee that was in charge of the burial preparations has since warned politicians against inciting residents into causing chaos.