Talks between striking healthcare workers' unions and the government resumed on Thursday to seek a durable solution to the walkout and chronic problems in the healthcare system. It was a Christmas without most public hospital care and New Year's will be the same. The talks had collapsed after more than six meetings failed to yield an agreement, with each side blaming the other. Health CS Mutahe Kagwe and governors started issuing threats of sacking and withholding salaries. Many doctors and nurses have been infected and have died. Union officials  accused the government of abandoning the talks and resorting to threats and intimidation. The government accuses unions of politicising the issue and refusing to treat patients while their issues are being resolved. The nurses and clinical officers went on strike on December 7, with the doctors joining them on December 21. The Health ministry later signed a return-to-work agreement  with the doctors, which the other union call a bad-faith accord and a betrayal. Despite signing the agreement with the doctors, health services across the country remain paralysed. Nurses and clinicians urge the government to swiftly solve their grievances so all normal services can resume countrywide. Nurses and clinicians demand comprehensive health insurance, a Covid-19 allowance, treatment in a dedicated facility for Covid-19 contracted on duty, back pay, designations and promotions, hiring of more health workers, a national Health Services Commission and a continuous supply of quality PPEs. Poor Kenyans who cannot afford private health facilities mostly stay at home. “It is not politics when Dr Kevin Muthoni has been found dead in his house in Chuka after working for four months without a salary,” Kenya National Union of Nurses Seth Panyako said. Talks collapsed after the Health CS Kagwe and governors started threatening health workers. Insults over insensitivity flew. By Thursday, 34 nurses and at least nine clinical officers had succumbed to the virus while on duty. The number of doctors who have passed on stands at 13. More than 2,900 healthcare workers have so far contracted the virus, but the CS said some of the infections were contracted outside health facilities. “Stop calling health workers names. When you call us names we will call you names. When you say we are drunkards and we get Covid by drinking in bars. We we will also tell you you are a drunkard because it is only a drunkard who can tell us we are getting Covid-19 from bars,” Panyako said. The Kenya Union of Clinical Officers secretary general George Gibore said the union has since April been providing advisories and reports about the working environment and problems. All their reports have fallen on deaf ears, they said. The union suspended strike notices on two occasions to allow the government to take remedial measures, without success. “While the union has always presented itself and participated in all meetings to resolve the stalemate, it must be noted the employers have become hostile, politicised the demands and refused to sit with the union,” Gibore said. The new meetings were scheduled by the Labour CS Simon Chelugui. As nurses are key to the healthcare system, the fear is that gains made in the sector are at a great risk of reversal should no solution be found. (Edited by V. Graham) 