All state agencies must make public information regarding tenders to minimise opportunities for corruption, President Uhuru Kenyatta has said. Uhuru said the publication of tender details will help citizens track projects and verify their implementation. He made the remarks in a speech read on his behalf by Attorney General Kihara Kariuki during the International Anti-Corruption Day celebrations held virtually from Ndumberi grounds in Kiambu county. “Today, the publication of tender award information by public agencies has been reemphasised in a bid to secure citizen information participation and verification of project implementation,” Uhuru said. The President said agencies will be required to publish the tender information quarterly through the most widely publicised media platforms. Uhuru said he will ensure billboard information for infrastructure projects including scope, contract course, contractors and timelines are publicised. “This way we expect to further reap from a techno-savvy citizen base monitoring and reporting what is happening on the ground,” Uhuru said. He said that he appreciates the efforts of the Judiciary to establish specialised courts to deal with corruption. “I commend the decision that courts have made affirming the risks of retaining persons in office who have been charged with corruption and other economic crimes,” he said. He added, “The risk of witness interference, evidence manipulation and frustration of court processes that are often raised by investigators and prosecutors have finally been understood by a more pragmatic and public interest-oriented bench.” He praised the police service's work in searching and seizing assets in corporate corruption cases and the reinstatement of the Anti-corruption and Economic Crimes Act to net unexplained wealth. Uhuru urged cooperation by all the agencies charged with fighting graft. “We shall be identifying additional professionals including lawyers, engineers, quantity surveyors among others to have them assume additional responsibility in assuring transparency, accountability and compliance in public sector transactions,” he said. He directed Treasury CS Ukur Yatani to restructure and enhance the internal function to support profiling, project review, monitoring and reporting and boost the use of financial reports to oversight and prevent wasteful expenditure. Kihara said fighting corruption runs to the core of the achievement of national development. “Kenya Integrity Plan which runs from 2019- 2023 is a strategic plan that outlines strategies and actions to enhance integrity and ethics among the Kenya Leadership and Integrity Forum member sectors respective institutions and society in general,” Kihara said. Ethics and Anti-corruption Commission chair Eliud Wabukala, Governor James Nyoro, Deputy Governor Joyce Wanjiku were present.