A section of Mt Kenya leaders has hailed the collection of 643,889 signatures from the region for the Building Bridges Initiative process as a massive endorsement of President Uhuru Kenyatta's agenda. They said the residents' response confirms Uhuru is in firm control of the region’s politics and will determine Mt Kenya's political direction. The leaders spoke on Thursday when they presented signed booklets to Central regional BBi signature collection coordinator Peter Weru. The leaders included ICT CS Joe Mucheru, governors Mutahi Kahiga (Nyeri), Francis Kimemia (Nyandarua) and Anne Waiguru (Kirinyaga), MPs Ngunjiri Wambugu (Nyeri Town), Jeremiah Kioni (Ndaragua) and Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata. Central regional commissioner Wilfred Nyagwanga was also present among other leaders. Nyandarua collected 78,932 signatures, Murang’a 166,390, Kiambu 181,744, Kirinyaga 116,513 while Nyeri collected 100,310. Kahiga called on Kenyans to stop associating the important BBI process with any individual. “It should be something that we as Kenyans are proud to participate in and it must be known that at no time, even in a church, does everybody agree [on a matter],” he said. Waiguru said those opposing the document from the Tangatanga side had shunned the handshake and BBI since inception. She said every effort to reach out to them has been in vain. Kimemia said the BBI report is an economic transformative document, not a political one. He said has addressed agricultural issues dear to the region. CS Mucheru told off those claiming that the BBI report is a project for President Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. “If you look at the number of people who voted for them, it was the whole country. We voted for them because we trust them and they are guiding us in the direction that we need to go,” he said. Wambugu said when the signature collection process began, there was the feeling that the number would not be achieved. “So this is a sign of endorsement and I think it also sends a message out there. We have a lot of political noises going around, people complaining about how this BBI may not be a good thing. But the ordinary Kenyans has been listening and they know what is good for them,” he said. The fact that the target has been surpassed in all the five counties in Central, is a sign that the ordinary Kenyans know what they want, Wambugu added. The MP downplayed any possibilities for negotiations on the proposed amendments. Kioni said a Constitution is a living document that keeps on being adjusted to suit the circumstances of the time. There is still room for amending it in future, he said. 