ODM party leader Raila Odinga has unveiled a possible reformation of the party’s strategic plans ahead of the 2022 campaigns to tighten the loose bolts as they prepare for the general election. Speaking on Tuesday at Diani Reef Hotel in Ukunda when he met with various party members in a closed-door meeting, he said they will use the results of the previous Msambweni mini-poll and other areas where the party lost. He said the move is meant to bring sanity and strengthen the party cohesion for huge political battles to come. “It is a normal standard procedure for the party to have a postmortem exercise after having an engagement like a by-election to understand the dynamics and all that we missed,” Odinga said. Some of the reformations include conducting party grassroots selections in search of new leaders, recruiting new members among other activities. ODM lost both the Msambweni and Wundanyi ward on December 15 by-elections. The Independent candidate Feisal Bader won the Msambweni parliamentary seat after garnering 15, 251, defeating his closest opponent Omar Boga of ODM who had 10,444 votes. Mbale ward seat wiper candidate Stephen Mcharo beat ODM candidate Jimmy Mwamidi and 12 other contesters. Mcharo got 1, 190 votes against Mwamidi’s 589. The party’s deputy Ali Joho continued to criticize their rivals for using the concluded Msambweni by-election as a nationwide popularity contest for ODM. “For those who are weighing up the party’s political strength through the previous mini-poll are daydreaming,” he said. Joho said they are now planning ahead of the national politics saying ODM house was still in order and ready for the 2022 battle. Suna East MP Junet Mohammed projected that from next year the party’s popularity will be at the top as it used to be in the old days. He said ODM will come back strong and regain its political dynasty not only in Kwale but also in the entire nation. At the same time, Mohammed drummed up support for the Building Bridges Initiative saying the report has the solution to Kenyans’ problems.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris