The Judiciary requires Sh35 billon for the next 2021-22 financial year in order to deliver Justice to Kenyans. Speaking at the Judiciary Public Sector Hearings, Acting Finance Director Susan Oyatsi said the resources required for the 2021/2022 is Sh 35.38 billion. The last public hearings on the budget were in Kisumu, Nakuru, Nyeri and on Friday they ended their hearings on Nairobi. They wanted to get public views on their budget report presented at the hearings. Oyatsi said the money they have been receiving from Treasury is not sufficient to cover their expenditure. Oyatsi says the Judiciary has identified several key areas in the next financial year that will enable it to serve Kenyans and deliver justice. The areas include adoption of ICT by digitising court processes, expansion of Court Annexed Mediation and undertaking of service weeks for backlog reduction in order to resolve all cases that are five years or more. In her presentation MTEF Budget Report to the public, she said another key area is facilitation of pro-bono cases by paying lawyers in order to ease cost of justice for the poor. Oyatsi further said due to lack of resources, many probono lawyers are yet to be paid because of the pending bills. She added that this has caused many probono lawyers to lack motivation to represent the poor who cannot afford lawyers. According to the report, the total pending bills for 2018-19 is Sh788 Million. Sh356. 6 million pending bills arose due to lack of funds from the Exchequer to pay commitments while She432 million were not paid due to closure of the financial period. "This was compounded by delays in presentation of invoices and certificates by suppliers, which culminated in some payments not being processed," the report says. The Judiciary had also urged the state to consider increasing their budgetary allocation in the next financial year because the World Bank Funding is coming to an end in July next year. The World Bank donated Sh12 billion for the JPIP programme that was used to build 29 courts across the country. However, even through the challenges, the Judiciary says it has achieved a lot and will continue to do the best with the resources allocated to it. For instance, the backlog of cases that are five years and older which stood at 170,186 in January 2017 reduced to 36,359 as at June this year. "The Judiciary has continued to receive inadequate funding over the years; this has hampered establishment and construction of courts in counties and sub-counties," the report reads. The report says the insufficient funding has also affected court operations, automation and recruitment of judicial officers and staff.