Athletes competing at next year’s Tokyo Olympics will have a shorter than usual stay at the world’s biggest multi-sports event due to tight Covid-19 health protocols, the International Olympic Committee said. IOC President Thomas Bach urged national Olympic committees to adapt athletes’ and support staff travel plans so that they do not arrive too early or stay too late, to minimise the risk of infections. “National Olympic committees should adapt the arrival and departure policies to ensure that athletes can arrive five days prior to the start of the competition and depart a maximum two days after of completion of competition,” Bach told a virtual news conference. “This applies to each sport’s specific officials, not only athletes. Exceptions will be considered subject to certain sport-specific criteria,” he said. This means athletes competing in the second week of the Olympics would not be attending the traditional teams’ parade in the Olympic stadium at the opening ceremony of the event. Those arriving early would miss out on the closing ceremony. The IOC said there would also be tighter controls on who can stay in the athletes' village to protect the competitors. The pandemic earlier this year forced the postponement of the Tokyo 2020 Olympics by a year. With more than 10,000 athletes from across the world expected for the Games, there are fears that their arrival could cause a spike in Covid-19 cases. Meanwhile, breakdancing, surfing, skateboarding and sports climbing have won a spot in the 2024 Paris Olympics after the International Olympic Committee ratified their inclusion on Monday, IOC President Thomas Bach said. The Paris 2024 organising committee had last year proposed the four sports for inclusion and was waiting on a final review by the IOC's Executive Board. Surfing, climbing and skateboarding are already part of the Tokyo 2020 Olympics, having been proposed along with karate by the Japanese hosts. Paris Games organisers have said they want to deliver a programme that is in keeping with the times and will attract a new and younger audience. Under new IOC rules first introduced for the Tokyo Games, Olympic host cities can hand-pick sports and propose them for inclusion in those Games if they are popular in that country and add to the Games’ appeal. The IOC also trimmed the overall events for Paris by 10 to 329 compared to the Tokyo Games next year, while increasing mixed gender events from 18 in Tokyo to 22 in four years time. "With this programme, we are making the Olympic Games Paris 2024 fit for the post-corona world," Bach said. "We are further reducing the cost and complexity of hosting the Games." "There is also a strong focus on youth," he added. The IOC also capped the total athlete quota to exactly 10,500. The recent summer Olympics had seen an increase to more than 11,000. There will also be exactly 50% men and 50% women athletes in Paris, up from 48.8% women in Tokyo. "While we will achieve gender equality already at the upcoming Olympic Games Tokyo 2020, we will see for the first time in Olympic history the participation of the exact same number of female athletes as male athletes," Bach said. "It's a nice reference to the 1900 Paris Olympics, when it was the first time that women were at the Games," Jean-Philippe Gatien, sports director for Paris 2024, told reporters at the Paris 2024 headquarters on Monday.