Hospitals in most parts of North Rift have shut down most operations as the strike by health workers entered its second week Monday. Tuesday will be Day Nine. Most county health centers, subcounty hospitals and referral facilities in Uasin Gishu, Nandi, Trans Nzoia and Elegyo Marakwet counties were deserted as patients were turned away by security guards. Striking nurses and clinicians said only establishing a National Health Services Commission will address their problems. The commission would deal with employment, discipline, promotions, salaries, training, safety at work and allowances, among other issues. Strikers also want PPEs, insurance, risk allowances, promotions, redesignations and back pay, among other demands. Beatrice Kariuki from the Kenya National Union of Nurses said on Monday Kenyans suffering due to lack of services in hospitals should support strikers so government meets their demands. “We know the public is suffering but we urge Kenyans to support us so they get quality services. If medical staff are taken care of, they will do the same for the public," she said Uasin Gishu County Referral Hospital along with Kitale and Kapsabet referral hospitals are among those where most services have been paralysed. Health services are largely devolved but governors have generally remained quiet about the strike. Kariuki, who is union chairperson in the region, said all nurses and clinical workers were making demands that would ensure effective work during the Covid-19 pandemic. “Covid-19 is the greatest challenge to health workers because of infection risks, yet the government is taking everything lightly as if the lives of medical workers don’t matter," union official Simon Chebii said The National Council of Churches of Kenya (NCCK) in Rift Valley has urged the national government and counties to urgently address strikers' complaints so they return to work. The officials led by Venerable Solomon Chelal said services at most hospitals had been paralysed while Kenyans were suffering from Covid-19. “Medical workers have genuine concerns that can be dealt with through dialogue. Being dismissive will not help resolve the problems but will cause more suffering to Kenyans," Chelal said.  (Edited by V. Graham) 