Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi has said the Meru Teaching and Referral Hospital will be elevated from the current level 5 to level 6 hospital status. He said by 2024, the facility will be one of the best in the region. He spoke on Tuesday while launching the hospital's 2020-24 strategic plan at the county government offices in Meru town. Level 6 hospitals are national referral facilities, which currently include Kenyatta National Hospital, Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital, Kenyatta University Teaching, Referral and Research Hospital, Mathari National Hospital and Othaya Referral Hospital, otherwise considered an annexe of KNH. “We will be offering special treatment currently being given in Nairobi and sometimes outside the country as the strategic plan aims at putting Meru as a premier health institution in Kenya in line with the country Vision 2030 and Meru Vision 2040 and county Strategic plan for 2018-2022,” Kiraitu said. The hospital has been upgraded and now has renal, ICU and oncology units, and a high-capacity oxygen plant. An ultra-modern 300-bed capacity wing is under construction. “We are also upgrading the cancer centre and the blood bank. We are also upgrading level 4 hospitals and health centres to decongest the hospital,” Kiraitu said. He said with the help of county assembly, they have in place the Meru Teaching and Referral Hospital Act—a new law setting facility as a parastatal—to ensure the provision of quality healthcare. “The act delinks it from all other facilities under the county government system to deal with chronic issues of inadequate medical personnel and medicine. We are in the process of constituting a new board as required by that Act,” he said. Deputy Governor Titus Ntochiu urged health workers to be considerate and not to go on strike every time money is delayed as the situation is caused by delayed disbursements of county allocation by the national government. "If we keep on with an altitude of going on strike without consulting, we are not going to achieve some of these things in the strategic plan,” he said. Chief officer for Medical Services James Kirimi said it is the first strategic plan the hospital has ever had since it was established in 1930. "There are very concrete issues we have put in this strategic plan. They include how to address the high number of cancer cases in Meru," Kirimi said. Edited by F'Orieny