For the first time in six years Dennis Were, a pharmacist, will not be traveling upcountry for the festive season. Currently residing in Nairobi, the doctor has been sending money to his relatives in the village in Kitale. “All the cash I would have used to travel home and even shop for the festive season has been sent home. Most of my family members lost their sources of income and I have to chip in,” Were said. That is however not the only reason he will not be spending the season in his rural home. “I have been working in a Covid-19 hotspot area. I need to protect those in the village as most are elderly and with underlying conditions. I have to protect them,” he added. He said Covid-19 has disrupted extravagant spending and leisure travel associated with the festive season. Bus fares are also very high. “This Christmas has found me and the entire country bruised by the effects of the pandemic. A lot of people have so many reasons not to travel upcountry,” he said. The disruption of livelihoods, loss of lives and the Covid-19 restrictions are also projected to influence this year's festivities. “Usually, Christmas and New Year celebrations start with a buzz but this year will definitely be different amid uncertainties triggered by the pandemic,” Were said. Similarly, Millicent Aluoch, a project manager, will not be travelling to her rural home in Busia county. "I am afraid of travelling. I have seen the disease kill a relative and I would never want that to happen to me or my children. I will have to spend the holidays in Nairobi," she said. Aluoch wants to save money for her daughter's fees ahead of schools reopening in January. Just like her, many city dwellers have expressed reservations about spending Christmas away from their townhomes. The reservations are occasioned by financial constraints, health concerns while for others, it is fear over a possible lockdown following the surging Covid-19 cases. Jared Nyabuto, a driver with a long-distance bus company, has highlighted the clear contrast marking this year's festivities. "Last year around this time, this place was full of activity. People were travelling a lot, 24 hours a day. But this year apart from very few travellers there is the curfew,” Nyabuto said. From the terminus he works in, there are very few buses making daily trips. “Despite those in the city adopting the practice of travelling upcountry and to the coastal areas during holidays, only a handful are doing it this time round.” Just like other travel companies, Nyabuto said their company is more focused on courier services as people were increasingly sending foods and household wares to their families during the pandemic. He noted that the imposed restriction measures are set to present a challenge to the public transport sector during the December holidays. It is the first time that Kenyans will celebrate Christmas and the New Year amid a pandemic. For months now, the government through the Ministry of Health has urged Kenyans to avoid unnecessary travel in the wake of Covid-19. The ministry has called on Kenyans to desist from social gatherings which can fuel the spread of the disease.  Edited by Henry Makori