Revellers in Lamu have been assured of adequate security as they prepare to usher in the New Year. Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia and county police commander Moses Murithi said proper security measures have been put in place to secure every corner of the county. Speaking on Thursday, Macharia said security patrols have been increased on roads, air and water to ensure peace and stability not just during the festivities but even after that. “Lamu is more than secure, and we are telling our visitors to relax and focus on enjoying their stay here. We all deserve some peace and happiness considering year 2020 has been quite tough because of Covid-19,” Macharia said. Lamu has received a considerable number of tourists and local visitors during the festive season. Murithi assured travellers to and from Lamu of adequate security. The Lamu-Garsen main road has become quite notorious for al Shabaab attacks targeting PSVs and security vehicles. Murithi asked all those travelling to always carry their national IDs and other identification documents so as not to get into trouble with security officers. “Travel stress-free knowing we have your back, and you have nothing to worry about. We have our officers all along the road to ensure that. But we have to remind you to walk with your original ID so that you don’t say you were harassed for not having one if you are over 18 years of age,” he said. He said additional security checks had been erected on the road to ensure suspicious people don’t enter or leave Lamu. The security assurances come hot on the heels of terror incidents witnessed in the region in December. On December 20, security officers repulsed an ambush on a Border Patrol Unit vehicle in Nyongoro on the Lamu-Garsen road by a group of heavily armed al Shabaab militants. The vehicle was part of the security detail escorting a convoy of buses from Lamu to Mombasa at around 9am. No one was injured. On December 27, the Kenya Defence Forces raided an al shabaab camp in Bodhai inside the Boni Forest and killed several militants and wounded others. They recovered bomb-making materials, AK-47 rifles and hand grenades. 