In three weeks, 2020 will come to an end. Corporates and individuals have faced many challenges during the Covid-19 pandemic. As we close the year, it is important to perform a personal SWOT (strength, weakness, opportunity, and threat) analysis. This will provide perspective on what you did well in 2020, the challenges and the avenues to pursue. SWOT will help you with personal development to become the best version of yourself. When conducting a personal SWOT analysis, think about what you want out of it. Do you want a new job or a new achievement in your current position? Are you looking for personal growth, or do you want to try something new? To conduct the analysis, ask yourself questions about each of the four examined areas. Honesty is crucial to generate meaningful results and view criticism objectively. It’s also important to imagine the potential of what you can become, don’t limit yourself to the strengths that you’re currently exhibiting in your job. List all of your strengths, even the ones that have been dormant for a while. There are many SWOT analysis templates online. Find one that makes sense to you, and get ready to evaluate your strengths, acknowledge your weaknesses, find what makes you excited about your work, business, job, or career as well as what keeps you awake at night. To make a SWOT worth the effort, you need to set aside time to really think about it, then sleep on it and revisit it. You will need to come back to this a few times a week or two to truly capture complete answers. Once complete, it is crucial to follow through on the insights uncovered. SWOT can fail to be effective if it is simply treated as a laundry list, without any tie-in to how the elements identified can be put into play. Once you start using your results, track your progress. Set up measurements and milestones, and work towards them. Step by step you will get where you want to be in 2021, so get started now and thank me in 2021. Managing partner, Watermark Consultants