President Uhuru Kenyatta is not misleading Kenyans on the outcomes of the Building Bridges Initiative process, Water CS Sicily Kariuki has said. Sicily said the President is trying to give direction to the nation for the good of all citizens. The CS said co-existing in a peaceful environment is the ultimate objective of the BBI process and constitutes Uhuru’s desired legacy. She spoke as she traversed Ol Kalou and Ol Joro Orok constituencies in Nyandarua drumming support for the BBI. She said she will lead from the front, just like she did during the 2017 elections campaigns, to ensure her home county of Nyandarua takes the lead in the process. “Today, I came to be an example and to exercise my civic responsibility as an individual and a resident of this county. Today, what we are being asked is to sign on the BBI document so that as a county we be counted when it comes to actualising the fruits of this constitutional amendment,” she said. Sicily said having a male and female senator from each of the 47 counties would empower the Senate and making oversight to the counties and wards easier. But unlike in 2017 where Sicily led to victory a united, enthusiastic and aggressive Jubilee brigade, Nyandarua leaders are reading from different scripts on BBI. Woman Representative Faith Gitau has declared her opposition to the process. Gitau prides herself in having a ‘fanatical’ following in Nyandarua county and is ready to convince the voters to shoot down the document at the referendum. Governor Francis Kimemia, Ndaragwa MP Jeremiah Kioni, Kinangop's Kwenya Thuku, Amos Kimunya of Kipipiri and Senator Githiomi Mwangi all support the document. Ol Joro Orok MP Mike Muchira appears to be sitting on the fence and reads from Deputy President William Ruto’s script that more can be done to achieve consensus. “My stand is that while BBI has some positive elements, we still have room to improve it. For instance, Nyandarua being a marginalised county needed some affirmative fund to make it at par with other counties in Mt Kenya region in terms of development. [An] additional constituency for Nyandarua would also have enhanced representation,” his short text to the Star read. Nyandarua speaker and County Assemblies Forum chair Wahome Ndegwa said he is still consulting on the matter. “Reserving my comments for the time being. In the meantime, I am doing consultations with my huge constituency. Today am in Murang’a and Nyeri assemblies,” he said in a text. The CS told the residents who are uncertain about the signatures being collected that they are not signing a death warrant but giving a “consensus that the Constitutional amendment begins now.”