ANC party boss Musalia Mudavadi has asked Kenyans to shun leaders who do not provide solutions on how the country can deal with the current economic crisis. Mudavadi said it was regrettable that some leaders only talk politics and nothing about the economic hardships ordinary citizens were going through. “Avoid leaders who just talk about the BBI, politics and nothing else. You need leaders who give suggestions on how the country could emerge from the economic crisis,” Mudavadi said. Only leaders who have given suggestions on how the economy could be revived should be elected during the 2022 General Election, he said. “If you vote in an administration that will not focus on economic recovery, then you will be in for a rude shock. Leaders should start talking about how the economy can recover,” he said. Mudavadi spoke at Friends Centre Maringo Church in Nairobi during a service on Sunday. He was with Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja, Makadara MP George Aladwa and city politician Stanley Livondo. Mudavadi said the choices Kenyans will make in 2022 will have a big impact on their well-being. “Let us be honest. How did we arrive at the impeachment in Nairobi? If we continue to make mistakes and chose leaders because of their popularity, we will continue to suffer,” he said. The former Sabatia MP said only responsible leaders should be elected as required by the Constitution on integrity. “Whether it is a governor, an MCA or an MP, vote for someone who will know they are holding a public office and not personal property.” Aladwa advised Mudavadi to seek the support of other communities in his bid to become president. Mudavadi contested the presidency in 2013 and has declared his intention to ran again in 2022. Aladwa said leaders from Western will hold a meeting in Nairobi in February next year to discuss how they will support Mudavadi. “We need to start looking at leadership skills, not parties all the time,” Aladwa said. Sakaja also hinted at supporting Mudavadi’s presidential ambitions during the 2022 polls. “As of now, I still have a contract with President Uhuru Kenyatta which lasts up to 2022. I am a man of principle and after the contract, I will be behind Mudavadi 100 per cent,” he said. Sakaja was elected on the Jubilee party ticket while Aladwa won his seat courtesy of the ODM party. Sakaja assured Mudavadi that he was behind him and would support his ambitions. “As a leader, you should never be afraid to be misunderstood especially if your conscience is clear,” Sakaja said.  