Mombasa county has launched a drone that will be used to fumigate open markets, parks, stadium and public beaches to combat Covid-19. Red Cross drone pilot Loki Mbaluto said the drone carries spraying liquid and it is primarily meant to spray pesticides. “As much as we want to see the drone flying and having a safe mission, most we want the people around the drone safe because they are not supposed to operate next to humans. With that, I can say the curfew has worked in our favour,” said Mbaluto. He said the team has identified areas where fumigation will be done, putting in to consideration the risk factors. He said the team is selecting areas to spray because areas with water, electricity polls, tall polls, which might be obstacles, should be avoided. “We are going to spray places where people converge and touch surfaces. Fort Jesus is among the targeted places because it is a tourist centre and people from different counties and countries visit,” Mbaluto said. Kongowea market, Mwembe tayari area, buxtone buspark, public parks are among the target areas for disinfection. The selected areas were considered based on their activities during the day and public gatherings. “The Red Cross is part of innovation team and the drones unit is trying to showcase the aerial disinfection using the drone," Mbaluto said. Mbaluto said the use of a drone is safer and faster. Health authorities have, however, said fumigation is ineffective in Covid-19 war. The World Health Organization has previously cautioned that spraying disinfectant on environmental surfaces such as roads will not eliminate the virus and could even pose a public health risk. In its publication, “Cleaning and disinfection of environmental surfaces in the context of Covid-19", the WHO said spraying disinfectant can be ineffective. “The primary mode of spraying is droplets spread, so even spraying 10,000 litres of chlorine will not stop one from coughing  and therefore  spreading the disease,” acting Health Director General said in July. Mombasa will be the first county to use a drone for disinfection. 