The National Assembly Administration and Security Committee wants police facilities in Kirinyaga county upgraded swiftly. Through chairman Paul Koinange, it said a lot of work needs to be put into the establishment of new police buildings, staff quarters and modernisation of equipment to aid police work. The committee toured a number of stations on a fact-finding mission. Among the stations visited were Kerugoya and Wang’uru police station, which recently hit the headlines over the mysterious deaths of two suspects on remand. “Some of the police stations were built during the colonial era and haven’t been replaced with new ones. An example is Wang’uru that was set up in 1957. As a committee, we have seen the need to oversee a quick completion of the ongoing construction of the Wang’uru  police complex to enable an improved working condition,” Koinange said. He expressed his dissatisfaction with the demeaning state of the cells in the station, terming them "not fit for human habitation". Speaking in Mwea, Kirinyaga county, the chair further revealed the government’s plan to set up more staff quarters within the stations to accommodate all officers. He said the move will be convenient for their security and duty availability. "[During] the trips we have been making to various police stations across the country, officers have expressed interest in being accommodated within  the stations as opposed to staying  with the civilian community. We totally understand their concerns and the danger they are exposed to while living outside the stations.” Area MP Kabinga Wachira, also a member of the committee, echoed the sentiments, saying Wang’uru police station houses only eight officers within the compound, a situation he said could spell doom should danger arises. He said the government plans to modernise Wang’uru police station. "We are already done with the first phase of the project and we are now looking forward to starting the second phase. We will also work hand in hand with the committee to see to it that a modern office of the county commander is also built in Kerugoya,” he said. Kabinga noted that with the modernisation of both Kerugoya and Wang’uru stations, security will improve exponentially as they both serve large populations in Ngurubani and Kerugoya towns. “From the list of all police stations in our county, Wang’uru police station leads in having the most inmates, an  indication that the neighbouring Ngurubani town  is growing economically, hence attracting a lot of lawbreakers. "It’s for that reason we need to tighten the security of our area but that can only be achieved if we modernise and equip our police stations,” Kabinga said, emphasising that the recent death of two inmates exposed the below-par condition of the facility. He further urged police officers to grant bail on trivial offences to help decongest cells, more so at a time when the country is grappling with the Covid-19 crisis. The committee also raised concerns over the high number of accidents caused by reckless drivers ferrying miraa and rampant illicit brew trade and consumption in the county.