The Star newspaper on Wednesday honoured its journalists for exemplary performance during 2020. Despite the challenges that came with the Covid-19 pandemic, the Star journalists produced some of the best journalism work over the year. This year's awards took a different format with the journalists being voted for by their own colleagues with the editors' role only limited to validating the votes. Radio Africa Group's Head of Content Paul Ilado lauded the journalists for rising above the challenges that came with the pandemic to keep the newspaper, its website and all other digital platforms running. Ilado noted that despite the challenges, the Star continued to produce some of the best stories in the country that not only triggered debate but awakened the nation's consciousness. The Star Chief Operating Officer Agnes Kalekye thanked the editorial team for its persistence despite the challenges that came with the pandemic and depressed revenues. Radio Africa Group's Digital Editor Oliver Mathenge congratulated the entire editorial team for the continued content generation for the online platforms. He noted that there was immense growth over the year with new digital products in place adding that 2021 would be a year of moving even further. Radio Africa Group, which owns the Star, prides itself as the home of great talent across print, radio, digital and TV platforms. Health Reporter John Muchangi was awarded the coveted Journalist of the Year Award as well as the General News Reporter Award for his groundbreaking coverage on Covid-19. Meshack Kisenge won Sports Reporter of the year award, Martin Mwita who won Business Reporter of the year while Leah Mutimba won radio journalist of the year. Entertainment writer Elizabeth Musyimi was named lifestyle and society reporter of the year, Mercy Mumo won photographer of the year, Annette Wambulwa won legal reporter of the year Jambes Mbaka got the political reporter of the year. Otieno Owino won copy editor of the year, Vincent Okeyo got the graphic designer of the year award while Andrew Kasuku was named the Resilience person of the year.