A leading local manufacturer has launched a soap targeting mainly consumers in mosquito-infested areas, thus further boosting the fight against malaria in the country. The mosquito-repellent Detrex Citronella soap manufactured by Pwani Oil Limited will retail at Sh 30 per piece, making it affordable for the average Kenyan household and especially those in areas prone to malaria and dengue fever. The soap is enriched with citronella, a natural ingredient known to effectively repel mosquitoes and other insects, and can be formulated into soaps, sprays, lotions, and candles. Citronella works by repelling (not killing) the insects - masking human and animal scents that are attractive to insects - thus making it hard for mosquitoes to locate their feeding target. “Soap is an easily accessible product found in every home. This makes it an effective tool in the fight against malaria," Commercial Director Rajul Malde said. "Ending malaria is an international health goal and making this kind of soap available to vulnerable populations is one step towards achieving that goal." Malaria is responsible for 10,000 deaths in Kenya each year, according to the US Center for Disease Control. Dengue fever is a tropical disease caused by the dengue virus spread by the Aedes type of mosquito. Sporadic outbreaks of the disease have been reported in Kenya in recent years. Most dengue fever outbreaks in the country coincide with the long-rain season, known to fuel the breeding of mosquitoes and other harmful insects. Some studies have shown that mosquito repellent soap provides an affordable and accessible way of fighting malaria especially in remote areas where other interventions are hard to find. Detrex enriched with citronella is the latest innovation by Pwani Oil, a Mombasa-based edible oils, soap, and detergents manufacturer focused on innovations that enhance consumer health and lifestyle. The soap has already been endorsed by the Kenya Professional Nurses Association. “As a company, our approach to innovation is centered on the consumer to promote happy and healthy living. We, therefore, thank KPNA for this endorsement,”Malde said. Detrex Citronella is the latest extension to the company’s personal life care segment which also includes the Diva and Sawa soap brands. The international community committed itself to end malaria by 2030 as part of the Sustainable Development Goals.