Many politicians have sent their message of condolence following the death of Machakos Senator Boniface Mutinda Kabaka. Kabaka died while receiving treatment at a Nairobi Hospital. His death was announced on Friday morning even though there were earlier rumours of his death on Wednesday. The senator's family confirmed the news in a press briefing at Nairobi Hospital. In his message of comfort and encouragement to the family, President Uhuru Kenyatta eulogised Senator Kabaka as a resilient and devoted leader who worked tirelessly for the wellbeing of the people of Kenya. “It is unfortunate that the painful hand of death has robbed our country of a committed legislator, gifted debater and progressive leader who used his skills as a lawyer to enrich legislative processes in the Senate. “Senator Kabaka was an approachable leader who took a keen interest in transforming the lives of the people of Machakos County and Kenyans at large. His death, therefore, is a big blow to our country as a whole.” Via Twitter, Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua said Kabaka's demise was due to the effects of a stroke arising from a blood clot that has been bothering him for a while. "On behalf of myself and the people of Machakos, I pass my condolence to the family of our beloved Senator Boniface Kabaka who has gone to be with the Lord," Mutua said. The legislator was admitted at the Nairobi Hospital six days ago after collapsing at a woman friend's house in Kilimani, Nairobi, according to a police report. However, his family dismissed the report, terming it "fake and malicious rumours". Mutua eulogized Kabaka as a strong and dedicated leader. "Senator Kabaka was an astute lawyer and legislator. Before he became Senator he had for a time served as my Government’s legal counsel. He was a lively man with a strong dedication to the improvement of the welfare of the people of Machakos and Kenya. This is a big blow to us," he said. "At this time of sadness and loss, let us remember his family and keep them in our prayers. Senator Kabaka - Lawyer, Teacher, Husband, Father, Leader and TrailBlazer: He will be greatly missed. May the Lord give comfort and strength to his Loved ones. Rest In Peace." National Assembly speaker Justine Muturi said the legislator will be remembered as a great advocate for devolution. Nairobi Woman Representative Esther Passaris and Wajir MP Adan Keynan sent their message of condolence to the family of the late senator and the People of Machakos County. In her message, Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu she received the news of Kabaks passing with a heavy heart. "Hon Kabaka will be remembered as an astute leader who put Country before self as witnessed during the deadlock in the revenue sharing formula discussions just recently," Ngilu said via Twitter. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula described the legislator as an avid debater whose valuable contribution will be missed. "The shocking death of Distinguished Senator Kabaka of Machakos has truncated an illustrious and promising career of a visionary leader," Wetangula said. ANC Party leader MusaliaMudavadi said, "My deepest condolences to the family of the late Machakos Senator Boniface Kabaka who has sadly passed on." Narok Senator Ledama Olekina said he was saddened by the loss of a friend and colleague. "Today I Lost a friend, a colleague and a great leader. #teamkenya I am So Sad! This is so upsetting! God Why now? To the family please be strong Kabaka was family to 68 of us in the Senate! We miss him dearly! R.I.P comrade!," he said. "I would like to send my heartfelt condolences to the family of Senator Kabaka and the entire Machakos fraternity. This is a gross loss, Senator Kabaka was not only an avid scholar but also played a major role in protection of devolution. What a great loss indeed!," Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa said.