Nyamira Governor John Nyagarama's story was that of bouncing back from personal setbacks — some of them too painful to bear. Nyagarama lost his first wife, Dorcas Sigara, in 1998. His daughter Catherine followed before he entered public life. Two years ago on June 11, 2018, his son George Ndemo died from acute meningitis. Through all these, Nyagarama drew from his deep reserves of endurance to overcome pain and loss. But on December 18, he succumbed to the coronavirus. He was 74. The county chief will be buried on Thursday in Nyamira town after a funeral service where President Uhuru Kenyatta and other dignitaries are expected. He is survived by his wife Naomi and children Emily, Kefah, Gideon, Mary, Erick, Isaiah, Sam and Tom. As the governor battled for his life in the hospital, his deputy Amos Nyaribo also tested positive for Covid-19 in early November. He was treated at various hospitals in Nairobi for three weeks. Speculation about Nyagarama's health had been rife in the public, buoyed by his repeated absence from public functions from late November and early December. For example, the governor missed out at the launch of a month-long EACC’s awareness campaign early December in the county. He was also absent at an event to mark the World Aids Day at the county headquarters. Health PS Susan Mochache attended the December 1 event. His health executive Douglas Bosire stood in for him. Nyagarama was also missing when Chief Justice David Maraga visited Nyamira to open court facilities at Manga Ritongo. He sent his Public Administration executive Bernard Osumo to represent him. The govenor studied English and literature at the University of Nairobi and taught until 80s. He switched chalk for tea and served the KTDA at managerial and directorate levels. The ODM politician tried his hands in politics in 2002 and 2007, seeking to represent South Mugirango constituency in Parliament.  He failed both times. Never one to give up, he ran for governor in 2013 and won. Nyagarama defended his seat in 2017.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris