The ombudsman has said a decision by the Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company to apportion a water bill debt of Sh143,659 to a resident in Buruburu was irregular. The Commission on Administrative Justice has now recommended that NWSC cancels the debt. The office last year received a complaint from one Gordon Okech alleging harassment by the NWSC over a water meter fraud committed by its staff. Particulars of the allegations were that the sewerage company staff reported anomalies in the water supply under Gordon's account, leading to discovery of a fraudulent change in account details to the name of Julius Nyerere Odera in 2010. The fraudulent change resulted in the accrual of massive water bills and consequently the constant harassment of him and his tenants. For several years, Gordon requested for investigation and resolution of the matter to no avail. He eventually sought the intervention of the commission with a view to having NWSC reinstate the meter number to his name without the bill accrued during the fraudulent change of account. On its part, the NWSC said it initiated investigations into the alleged fraud and findings showed that the account in question had outstanding debts before the alleged change of particulars. Yesterday, commissioner Lucy Ndung’u said it's not in contention that there was a change in account name but the circumstances under which the account name was changed are not clear. “So many questions are left unanswered. Like who applied for change of account name, who approved the change of account name, was the complainant duly notified of the said change?” Posed Ndung’u. The Ombudsman said in changing account particulars, there should be no pending bills in the previous account. This essentially means that at the time when the account name and particulars changed from Gordon Okech to Julius Nyerere, there ought to have been due diligence in the former account. Ndung’u said if the NWSC exercised due diligence, such an anomaly would not have occurred. “NWSC had a duty to exercise due diligence and to notify Gordon of any arrears in the said account before the change in account particulars occurred. This did not take place and we have not found any explanations from the company on the cause for such an anomaly,” said the office. Ndung’u said the decision to apportion the debt to the complainant was influenced by considerations that cannot lawfully be taken into account. She recommended that the NWSC proactively disclose their policy documents as required under the law in its dealing with the public.