The Law Society of Kenya chairpersons from eight branches have called upon LSK President Nelson Havi and CEO Mercy Wambua to end their differences for the sake of the society. Through a joint statement, the chairs said that their attempt to bridge the differences between Havi and Wambua has not been taken up and has been dismissed. They said that the Law Society of Kenya is guided by the provisions of the Act and that no Council member of whatever position is above the provisions of the Act and the regulations. “The Act envisions a single Law Society of Kenya Council presided by the President of the Law Society of Kenya. It is the duty of the President and the Council members to put the Society first and swallow their pride in the discharge of their mandate. The divisions now witnessed clearly point out to a Council that is disconnected and in a self-destruction mode,” the chairs said. They said that it is unfortunate that the ongoing differences have affected the secretariat and delivery of services to members. Their input comes as the impeachment of Havi as LSK president is underway. Lawyer Charles Midenga in a letter to the LSK dated November 25, accused Havi of gross conduct in among other matters, the removal of Wambua. Midenga has appealed that the members do elect an Interim President to temporarily preside over the Council's deliberations and oversee the transition from the removed president, pending the election of a substantive president. They reiterated that the society CEO exists, unless and otherwise removed in terms of the provisions of the Law Society of Kenya Act. They have asked members to remain calm as they follow the matter and that they will continue to consult widely with members in our branches to ensure that the affairs of the Society are put back on track. “If the Council of the Society is unable in the circumstances to work together they should be ready to submit themselves to the members for them to make a decision on the way forward to unlock the impasse.” The statement was signed by Mathew Nyabena (Coast Branch), Ochang Ajigo (Rift Valley Branch), Justus Mutia (South Eastern Branch ), Joshua Maritim (North Rift Branch), Erick Theuri (Nairobi Branch), Wilkins Ochoki (Nairobi Branch), Linda Kiome (Mount Kenya Branch) and Susy Raulo (Western Branch).