Frontline health workers can only get the medical emergency allowance after negotiating a fresh collective bargaining agreement, the Salaries and Remuneration Commission has said. The SRC clarified that the allowance is a CBA item and, therefore, can only be reviewed through CBA negotiations when the prevailing agreement expires. “The Covid-19 medical emergency allowance was approved for a period of three months with effect from April 2020,” the SRC said in its submission to the Senate’s Health committee. The allowance is given for the purposes of compensating health workers at risk of contracting Covid-19 due to exposure in the fight against the pandemic. SRC chief executive officer Anne Gitau said the approval of the allowance for frontline health workers “was based on the fiscal space that was available at the point of request.” Doctors, dentists and pharmacists received Sh20,000 allowance per month, while nurses, clinical officers, chemists, biochemists, physiotherapists, medical lab technologists, technicians, and medical lab officers received Sh15,000 for the same period. Community health officers, health promotion officers, radiographers, public health officers, occupation therapists, nutrition and dietetics officers and medical social workers received Sh10,000 per month. Support staff, among them cleaning supervisors and boiler assistants, got Sh5,000 per month. The clarification came hot on the heels of industrial action by health workers who are asking for enhanced allowances, among other demands. They also want compensation for all doctors and healthcare workers, employment of more staff, comprehensive medical cover and dedicated health facilities for medics who get infected with the virus. “We must be paid an increased health allowance, we need dedicated health facilities in each county for treatment of doctors, and we also need a constitutional health service commission to handle the matters of doctors,” Kenya Medical Practitioners and Pharmacists and Dentist’s Union secretary-general Chibanzi Mwachonda said. The SRC approved the current allowances in May and wrote to the Council of Governors and the Public Service and Gender ministry requesting payment of the money to health workers in national and county governments during the Covid-19 pandemic. “The SRC deliberated on the matter during its special meeting in cognizant of the challenges faced by the healthcare workers and approved Covid-19 medical emergency allowance and benefits for the frontline healthcare workers as estimated to cost Sh3.3 billion for a period of three months with effect from April 1, 2020, subject to availability of funds,” the commission said in the letter. On July 12, Health Chief Administrative Secretary Mercy Mwangangi announced that health workers' would be able to access their allowances after the ministry received the disbursement from the National Treasury. "There are discussions underway to look at the fiscal space to determine how we will be able to expand this support to our health workers," she said.