A Kiambu man who stabbed his estranged wife 26 times has been adjudged insane and committed to Mathare Mental Hospital for 15 years. The sister of victim Joyce Wangari said he wanted to have her heart and liver before the murder four years ago at Ruii Estate in Thika subcounty. The Kiambu High Court on Friday sentenced George Njenga Chege to 15 years of treatment. Though two initial psychiatric reports said he was fit to stand trial, two other reports and a presentencing report found him to be unfit. Njenga was said to be psychotic, delusional, violent, suicidal, a substance abuser suffering from mood disorders. However, because of the first two reports, he initially was allowed to plead not guilty and was assigned a state defence counsel. On Friday, Judge Christine Meoli ruled that Njenga was insane at the time of the  murder, noting the vicious injuries he inflicted with a knife. “Unless treated, the accused person poses a serious danger to himself and others including the young daughter born to him by the deceased,” Meoli said, citing the probation report. She said the victim's family was traumatised by the cruel manner of the killing. “They would be subjected to worse suffering if the accused is let loose in his current state as there is no telling what he might do next,” judge Meoli said. She said she was obliged to prevent harm to the public. There was no possibility, however, that he would have been released. The state produced eight witnesses. The victim's sister, Mary Wanjiku Kirathe, said that in April 2016 Wangari told her that Njenga had threatened her life and said he wanted to "have her heart and liver". The threats were report to Makongeni police station in Thika on April 28, 2016. Two initial mental assessments found Njenga troubled but fit to stand trial, knowing the difference between right and wrong. He initially opted to make a sworn statement and call two witnesses but then decided to remain silent. The court ordered a third psychiatric assessment. That report on June 6, 2018, said Njenga was not fit to plead, citing a history of delusional psychotic and mood disorders. He was ordered treated at Mathare Hospital. In September 2018, a report by psychiatrist Dr Nelly Kitazi said Njenga was unfit for trial. She cited his lack of insight, irrational and immature reasoning and possible substance abuse disorder. A report by another psychiatrist on December 3, 2018, found him unfit for trial and suffering rom post-traumatic stress disorder. Treatment was continued. Judge Meoli said that in view of Njenga's medical history of instability he should be detained at Mathari Mental Hospital for 15 years of treatment. His condition will be reviewed by the court after three years, then after every two years. “Pursuant to Section 166 of the CPC, the court makes an order that the accused shall be committed to a mental institution,” the judge ruled. Njenga has the right to appeal within 14 days. (Edited by V. Graham) 