The EU has published contingency plans in case of the possible collapse of Brexit trade talks with the UK. The plans aim to ensure smooth UK-EU air and road travel, as well as allowing the possibility of fishing access to each other's waters. They come after talks between UK PM Boris Johnson and EU chief Ursula von der Leyen aimed at ending a deadlock over the deal ended without agreement. The UK is due to stop following EU trading rules on 31 December. The UK left the EU at the end of January this year, but a transition period of 11 months followed to allow the two sides to try to negotiate a deal. The commission said the application of the proposed measures would, in some cases, depend on the UK reciprocating and accepting certain terms. The prime minister's spokesman said such a statement from the EU had been expected and it was similar to what had been proposed in September 2019, adding that the government had already set out its own plans in the event a trade deal could not be reached. The main obstacles for an agreement continue to be access to fishing waters, rules about subsidising businesses and how any new deal would be policed. The EU's contingency plans A statement by the European Commission - the EU executive - published on Thursday said there was currently "significant uncertainty" about whether a deal would be in place by 1 January. "Our responsibility is to be prepared for all eventualities, including not having a deal in place," Ms von der Leyen said. Some sectors would be disproportionately affected, the commission said, adding that it was proposing four contingency measures "to mitigate some of the significant disruptions" if a deal were not in place: The commission also said its offers on road and air transport would depend on the UK providing "fair and equal opportunities", adding: "A level playing field requires that, even after the end of the transition period, the United Kingdom continues to apply sufficiently high and comparable standards." The idea of level playing field measures is to ensure businesses on one side do not have an unfair advantage over their competitors on the other. The EU wants the UK to stick particularly closely to a number of its rules but the UK argues Brexit means breaking free from them. The aviation plans would allow UK-registered carriers to keep flying to and from the EU, the trade body Airlines UK said, but they would not be allowed to fly routes within the EU. Industry group ADS called the proposals "bare bones arrangements" that would still leave issues to be resolved, including over aviation safety regulations. Reacting to the EU's contingency plans, Boris Johnson's spokesman said the UK government would look "very closely at the details" and that negotiators were "continuing to work to see if the two sides could bridge the remaining gaps". The spokesman added that the government "had been clear throughout it would not agree to anything that did not respect UK sovereignty".