DP William Ruto’s allies and supporters throughout Rift Valley have generally boycotted the BBI signature collection. Many people said they were waiting for clear direction and want the Deputy President to pronounce himself on the matter - is he for or against BBI referendum? One million signatures are needed to begin the referendum process. MPs and governors allied to the DP did not participate in the signature collection and did not encourage supporters. Nandi Governor Stephen Sang said BBI was not a priority, given Covid-19 and the troubled economy. BBI is supported by President Uhuru Kenyatta an ODM leader Raila Odinga. Ruto has been lukewarm, endorsing a few aspects, but has not wholeheartedly endorsed the process. His support is in question and he faces a political dilemma over the process. The BBI team has failed to meet its target of 25,000 signatures from each constituency in the region. Records so far indicate most areas did not get 3,000 signatures. Chiefs - state employees - who were issued BBI signature booklets were holding many empty booklets. Residents in most areas complained they had not read the BBI report and could not decided whether it was good for them or not. Some chiefs in Turbo approached Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, asking him what to do with the empty booklets. He turned them away, saying he had nothing to do with them. “I don’t work with the county commissioner’s office. You can ask whoever gave you the booklets," Mandago is said to have told the chiefs. However, Governor Alex Tolgos of Elgeyo Marakwet, who is the chairman of the BBI coordinating team, said collection was going well in the region. Tolgos urged leaders and residents to endorse BBI and a referendum because, he said, they  provides many benefits and strengthens devolution. The county chief complained of misinformation and political interests by some leaders in the region who want the process to fail. “Many people in this region have read the document and know what it will provide. I am sure eventually they will back the process like other Kenyans," Tolgos said. The Elgeyo Marakwet boss said increased county financial aid of 35 per cent will 'transform' lives. “Counties like mine have very few resources and if counties get more money through BBI, we will benefit," Tolgos said. “Even some of us supporting the BBI have been branded enemies of the community, yet we are fighting for more resources through stronger devolution under BBI," he said. Uasin Gishu Senator Margaret Kamar and Ainabkoi MP William Chepkut led the signature launch in Eldoret. They expressed confidence the Kalenjin community would eventually back the process. Mandago and Nandi Governor Sang urged residents to be cautious about BBI. “We are already complaining about a huge wage bill yet through BBI the number of MPs will increase to more than 600. That will overburden Kenyans already suffering in a poor economy," Sang said. He said the referendum was not a priority for Kenyans and if there are issues to amend in the Constitution, there should be consensus. Nandi Deputy Governor Yulita Mitei said the BBI should not be forced on Kenyans who have more burning issues to deal with. “Kenyans are bothered about the bad economy and Covid-19. Let BBI not be forced down Kenyans' throats," Mitei said. (Edited by V. Graham) 