Mount Kenya University co-founder Jane Nyutu last week graduated with a doctorate in counselling psychology, adding another feather to her cap. Nyutu, who co-founded MKU alongside Prof Simon Gicharu, earned her PhD from Kenyatta University. She researched how counselling psychology can help university students overcome the challenges they encounter in their studies. She noted that there are numerous instances where students drop out of college due to unavoidable circumstances. Her study also shows that with good handholding while in college, young people are able to easily launch successful careers both in employment or enterprise when they graduate. Nyutu worked with medical students on her PhD thesis titled 'The Effectiveness of Counselling Services on Academic Performance and Retention Rates'. She sought to understand why students register for courses but drop out or change midway. She focused on students studying medicine and surgery, where she observed a huge drop-out rate before graduation. During the yearlong research, Nyutu supported the students through counseling; including how to approach their studies, handling societal expectations and even failure as well as such areas such as financial management. “Over time, students register for medicine in big numbers but some end up dropping out, others transfer courses and others are discontinued. I wanted to find out what we as counsellors can do to ensure that when students join universities they read and graduate successfully and in good time,” she said. “I found that counseling works effectively and students who went through the psychoeducation programme performed better academically.” Simon Gicharu, while congratulating Nyutu on her graduation, noted that her new qualifications will benefit MKU in different ways. “I know that I have a partner who understands the education system. She now better understands my vision … I hope the PhD gives you more resolve to make MKU a better institution so that the generations who come after us appreciate the efforts of our generation,” he said. He challenged people, both young and old, to further their education noting that it does not necessarily have to lead to a better job but it helps in shaping character. “You do not necessarily get an education so that you can get a job. You can get education to be better off than the way you are.” Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha noted that private universities such as MKU play a key role in increasing access to higher education in the country. Edited by Henry Makori