2020 Tokyo Olympics-bound featherweight pugilist Nick Okoth is already thinking of life outside the ring with his transitioning into coaching already taking shape. Okoth insists his eyes are trained on a medal at the postponed Games but his judgement and exploits in the ring have received a major boost after he recently benefited from a coaching course that was facilitated by the Boxing Federation Of Kenya (BFK). The Aiba Star 1 certification course, which had 20 participants, also roped in Elizabeth Andiego, who represented the country in the middleweight division at the 2014 Commonwealth Games. The training was organized by BFK in an effort to build the capacity of coaches as a recognition of the critical role they’ll be expected to play in executing the  Ndondi Mashinani program when they go back to their respective clubs across the country. Okoth says he'll use his knowledge to nurture budding boxers back in Mathare slums where he grew up and cut his teeth in the sport at Undugu Amateur Boxing Club. "I really appreciate the federation's efforts in empowering local boxers. The course is another clear testimony of their determination to build capacity in the country," said Okoth. Okoth further stated that the course will come in handy once he retires from his job in the forces. "I am getting old and worn out. Soon I will be hanging my gloves and as such, I should start planning for my future," he said. Okoth believes he stands a better chance of landing a job as the next KDF boxing coach considering his impressive track records with the forces as a boxer and given the education he has now gained from the course. Okoth, who serves as a major in the Kenya Defence Forces, was born March 3, 1983, and grew up in Mathare with three brothers, who also turned out to be exceptional boxers. On Tokyo, Okoth says he is eager to replicate his splendid performance at the 2008 Beijing Olympics where he came close to bagging a medal for Kenya. "I've been training hard for some time now and I believe that I'm going to make a good impression of myself at the Tokyo Games," said Okoth. "I have a lot of confidence given that I'm being guided by coach Benjamin Musa, who has known me for a very long time. He actually took my hand from the scratch and nurtured me to my current status as a champion."