President Uhuru Kenyatta has underscored the need for closer collaboration between governments, development partners and international financial institutions in dealing with the harsh economic and social effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. The President reminded development partners and international financial institutions to support African governments in their post Covid-19 recovery plans. "It must be borne in mind that there cannot be a global bounce back that leaves Africa behind. Our Development Partners and the International Financial Institutions should take a long term view, and dispense with any short term requirements or considerations that would only serve to slow down Africa’s recovery," Uhuru said. He spoke on Tuesday during the second edition of the KUSI Ideas Festivals held both physically in the lakeside city of Kisumu and virtually for remote participants. The KUSI Ideas Festival, sponsored by the Nation Media Group, was launched in 2019 as part of the media group's 60th anniversary celebrations. In a pre-recorded message, the President also challenged African governments to consider responses that do not just seek to address direct and immediate impacts of Covid-19 but also those that result in wider sustaining of systems for the wellbeing of citizens. “As governments, and in the spirit of Pan Africanism, it is necessary for us to consider responses that do not just seek to address direct and immediate impacts of Covid-19 but also those that result in wider sustaining of systems for the wellbeing of our people,” the President said. Citing Kenya as an example, the Head of State said his administration has designed the post Covid-19 Economic Recovery Strategy (ERS) that is aimed at accelerating the country’s economic recovery for higher and sustained growth. "The Covid-19 pandemic was bound to affect more seriously the vulnerable part of our populations. Cognizant of this fact, my Government moved fast and introduced several welfare measures to cushion the elderly Kenyans, the urban poor and vulnerable persons and businesses in the economy," he said. President Kenyatta said the Government will introduce long-lasting comprehensive measures to replace the short-term reliefs and to power the economy post-Covid-19 He noted that the Government will focus on healthcare, promotion of the digital economy, FinTech, education and manufacturing. Uhuru's administration has unveiled a Sh928.6 billion recovery plan to rescue the economy ravaged by Covid-19. The government is banking on the Covid war chest to mitigate or reverse effects of the virus crisis that has left an estimated 1.7 million people jobless in the formal and informal sectors. Unemployment has doubled to 10.4 per cent; the country faced an unemployment crisis before the pandemic hit. In the recovery plan developed by the National Treasury seen by the Star, President Kenyatta intends to pump billions into the health, education, security and ICT sectors. Transport and women's enterprises  will also benefit.