Machakos Senator Boniface Mutinda Kabaka is dead. Kabaka died while receiving treatment at a Nairobi Hospital. Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua said Kabaka's demise was due to the effects of a stroke arising from a blood clot that has been bothering him for a while. "On behalf of myself and the people of Machakos, I pass my condolence to the family of our beloved Senator Boniface Kabaka who has gone to be with the Lord," Mutua said. The senator was last Friday admitted at the Nairobi Hospital after collapsing at a woman friend's house in Kilimani, Nairobi, according to a police report. However, Kabaka's family later dismissed the report, terming it "fake and malicious rumours" The family spokesperson said, "We urge you to ignore the fake and malicious rumours being spread by some petty, callous and heartless political enemies to malign the good name of the Senator while he is helpless and fighting for dear life." According to the incident report at Kilimani police station, the senator had checked into the apartment accompanied by the woman last Thursday afternoon. The senator suddenly started complaining of severe headache while in the apartment and asked the woman to look for paracetamols. However, the pain worsened and she informed the management who called an ambulance and rushed the legislator to Nairobi Hospital where he was admitted in the ICU. However, the family says while having a drink in a restaurant in Kilimani area, Mutinda requested the management to call for an ambulance to rush him to Nairobi Hospital after feeling unwell. The woman who was arrested after Kabaka collapsed said she is a long-time friend of the lawmaker's. Esther Muli, a teacher based in Wote, said she could not possibly have conspired to harm him. On Monday, Milimani senior resident magistrate David Ndungi allowed detectives to hold Muli for a week to allow police to analyse the events that led to the sudden sickness of the senator. Muli on Tuesday told Mbaitu FM that the senator started complaining of a headache at around midnight. While it was her first time to visit 3Dee Apartments, the meeting was not the first with the senator. She said that they attended the same school with the legislator and had kept in touch. When the senator called her for another day’s meeting, she agreed. She said the senator was already at the apartment when she arrived. Reports say he drove there by himself without a bodyguard and his driver. They had food and drinks which Kabaka ordered from a restaurant in the apartment before proceeding into a room the senator had booked. All was well and both had a great evening. At midnight, the senator started complaining of a headache, she told the Mbaitu reporter. Kabaka asked for painkillers but the headache persisted. Muli called the senator’s aide Isaac Muinde and briefed him on the sickness. It’s the aide who organised with the apartment management to call paramedics to evacuate the legislator.