Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o has warned cartels against derailing the development of affordable housing in the county. He said a few individuals have been opposing housing projects in identified estates in the city for selfish gains. The county, in partnership with investors, has earmarked Makasembo, Argwings Kodhek, Arina and Ondiek estates for building housing units. “The houses should be in decent places and readily available to the lower, middle and upper class in society,” he said. Nyong’o said the houses should be affordable enough to enable occupants to meet other basic needs. “Article 43 of Chapter Four of the Constitution clearly states that every person has a right to accessible and adequate housing and to reasonable standards of sanitation,” he said. He spoke on Wednesday during the unveiling ceremony of Anderson-Ofafa affordable housing project. Nyong’o lauded the 1,394 housing units to be built by Laptrust, a county pension fund, saying this would enable low-income residents to win a house. The new units will be comprised of one, two, and three bedrooms. The project, expected to take 48 months, will also have 92 shopping complex built around the perimeter wall. The one-bedroom unit will cost Sh1.5 million with two and three-bedroom units costing Sh2.5 million and Sh3.5 million respectively for low-income earners. The two and three-bedroom units will cost Sh3.5 million and Sh4.5 million respectively for the middle-class Kenyans. Kisumu Deputy Governor Mathews Owili, Laptrust CEO Hosea Kili, city manager Abala Wanga and Market Milimani MCA Seth Ochieng were present. Owili and Ochieng commended the project, terming it a godsend to residents. It is expected to cost Sh3.5 billion. Ochieng said tenants who have been relocated should be considered first once the houses are complete. “I want to appeal to the Laptrust to block the cartels from the project. Priority should be given to tenants in Anderson estate,” he said. He, however, questioned whether the developers factored in the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic on the cost of the units. Wanga said tenants affected have been compensated, so they can look for alternative houses. Kili said the government has prioritised the development of housing for low-incomers, with the Anderson-Ofafa Affordable project being the first housing project outside Nairobi. “The housing units are designed in line with both the national and county’s affordable housing agenda,” Kili said. The concept of street commerce in Kisumu city’s economy has been embedded in the proposed project by providing retail shops along the major access roads. “The project will not only provide decent and affordable housing to residents of Kisumu but will go a long way in providing employment to thousands of youth and women,” he said. Residents will provide labour, supply building materials, and catering services to the construction workers. Kili said the demand for new housing units, especially in urban areas, has been estimated at 250,000 units against an estimated supply of 50,000 housing units. The housing segment of the Big Four agenda presents an opportunity for pension funds to provide decent and affordable housing, stimulate economic growth and spur industrial growth, he said. This, he said, will create employment while lifting the standards of living for our people. Kili said they engaged stakeholders of the Anderson-Ofafa Estate and developed an action plan to facilitate the relocation of the project-affected persons. “We have compensated those affected to look for alternative houses,” he added.