Young innovators from the 14 Lake Region Economic Bloc counties on Friday exhibited new technology for agriculture, security, finance and other sectors. Smart solutions showcased included an anti-burglary sensor that alerts farm owners of intruder via mobile phone. The sensor can also be used to locks doors remotely and sent texts to the owners in the event of break-ins. Other innovations included a solar-powered GPS tracker for cattle and marketing information systems for cane farmers. The exhibition was organised by the Inter-Regional Economic Network, Kenya's Technologies and Innovations Platform. Innovators pitched their smart solutions aimed at mitigating challenges across agricultural value chains. The exhibition was a hybrid of in-person and virtual events. Smart kilimo, an online platform accessible via a USSD code, was also exhibited. The platform links cane farmers directly to millers and cuts out middlemen who exploit them. The system can also connect farmers to agricultural information centres, financial institutions and farm input providers. Another innovator from Busia developed a smart greenhouse equipped with temperature, humidity and water sensors. A distillation machine for the production of a renewable biofuel from dracaena plant also featured. The annual event seeks to offer youths a platform to showcase smart and sustainable agribusiness solutions to challenges in agricultural value chains. It also seeks to optimise agri-processes by promoting the best mix of innovation and technology to business processes in the value chain. IREN chief executive officer James Shikwati said the creators have been given time to take their projects to the community before being assisted to patent them. “We are delighted to host these technology innovators. Their agency is key to helping the Lake Region Economic Bloc to develop homegrown solutions that compliment county and national government development," Shikwati said. Veni Swai, a senior programme officer at Friedrich Naumann Foundation East Africa, said the organisation is committed to supporting the development of solutions to development challenges. “We are proud to be partners in this initiative. We welcome more partners to join the initiative and expand innovative solutions in the counties,” she said. The 14 counties under LREB are Kakamega, Kisumu, Busia, Bungoma, Trans-Nzoia, Migori, Siaya, Homa Bay, Kisii, Nyamira, Nandi, Bomet, Vihiga and Kericho. 