2020 was a year of coronavirus pandemic; a year that social responsibility was bestowed upon Kenyans, a year that saw many deaths due to the outbreak of coronavirus. By December 24, Kenya had lost 1,652 people to the virus with 95,431 cumulative confirmed cases. The deaths left families distraught as the virus robbed them not only of the people they loved but also for their support system. But it's not only the virus that killed many, other people died during accidents and other diseases. These are some of the high profile people that lost their lives this year; Former President Daniel Moi Former President Daniel Arap Moi died in February. President Uhuru Kenyatta issued a presidential proclamation announcing the passing on of the retired President. The former president died at the age of 95. Papa Shirandula Charles Bukeko popularly known by his stage name Papa Shirandula died in July this year. Papa Shirandula had Covid-19 when he died. He initially had gone home after a Covid test but later he was writhing in pain and gasping for breath as he waited in his car when he was rushed to Karen Hospital. At his burial, unattended to for some time, he died in the car, his widow said. Widow Beatrice Andega blamed medical negligence and admissions bureaucracy for what she called a fatal delay, despite his condition being an emergency. Ken Ouko Ouko, a University of Nairobi sociology lecturer, died in August at 53. He was being treated at the Aga Khan Hospital. WhatsApp messages attributed to him while in ICU painted a picture of a man in excruciating pain, desperate for support and help. His specialty was medical sociology, gerontology and deviance. Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha eulogised him as a lively and brilliant person, adding that his death dispelled perceptions that the virus only fatally attacked older people. Dr Doreen Lugaliki Doreen Lugaliki was the first frontline medical doctor in the country to succumb to Covid-19 while trying to snatch the life of her patient from the virus. The 38-year-old consultant obstetrician started complaining of an uncomfortable cold on July 6 and on the advice of her siblings, checked into the Aga Khan University Hospital. At the waiting bay, the always chatty doctor was full of life though she struggled with breathing, coughing and other symptoms of cold. Prof Maurice Mang’oli Maurice Kizito Mang’oli, a mechanical engineering professor at the University of Nairobi succumbed to the virus at The Nairobi Hospital July. The 67-year-old don was eulogised as a distinguished scholar whose towering figure left indelible footprints in many buildings in the city. Mang’oli is credited for being the consultant engineer who oversaw the construction of the 13-storey City Hall Annex in 1980. Tony Waswa Tony Waswa, the 48-year-old brother of Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula and Westlands member of Parliament Timothy Wanyonyi, died suddenly of the virus in May. He was his brother Wanyonyi's personal assistant for seven years. He breathed his last at the Aga Khan Hospital in Nairobi after being admitted in the facility for a week. At the burial on May 20 at Mukhweya village, Bungoma county, Wanyonyi said he was together with his brother on May 9, distributing food to needy families in the constituency and had scheduled to do more the following day. However, this never was as Waswa would not emerge, telling him that he was unwell. Isaac Cherogony The husband of Baringo woman Representative Gladwel Cheruiyot died of the virus at an Eldoret hospital on July 4. Not much is known about Cherogony but tests showed that the Woman Representative tested negative. Cyrus Omondi Kahawa Wendani MCA Cyrus Omondi died on February 12 According to Kiambu county assembly speaker Stephen Ndichu, Omondi died after suffering a heart attack. Omondi, who was on a trip to India, was found dead in his hotel room on Wednesday, Witethie ward representative Julius Macharia said on Wednesday. Cyrus Mbembe Gaturi Ward MCA Cyrus Mbembe died on September 4. Mbembe who hails from Kiharu in Murang'a county died while battling cancer. He died while receiving treatment in M.P. Shah Hospital in Nairobi. Mbembe was an independent candidate when he vied for the seat in 2017. Kennedy Mainya On November 1, Kisii County's Kiamokama MCA Kennedy Mainya died. The ward representative passed away as he was being transferred in an ambulance to Nairobi. County Assembly Majority leader Timothy Ogugu said Mainya died in Narok as they were en route to a city hospital for specialized treatment. Suleiman Dori Msambweni MP Suleiman Dori died in March this year after being admitted at the Aga Khan Hospital in Mombasa. Dori had been at the hospital's Intensive Care Unit. According to the director of Coast Development Authority Mshenga Rugha, Dori fell sick and he was rushed to the hospital. Dori was elected as an MP for the second time through the ODM party in 2017. Boniface Mutinda Kabaka Kabaka died while receiving treatment at a Nairobi Hospital. Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua said Kabaka's demise was due to the effects of a stroke arising from a blood clot that has been bothering him for a while. The senator was admitted at the Nairobi Hospital after collapsing at a woman friend's house in Kilimani, Nairobi, according to a police report. According to the incident report at Kilimani police station, the senator had checked into the apartment accompanied by the woman. The senator suddenly started complaining of severe headache while in the apartment and asked the woman to look for paracetamols. However, Kabaka's family dismissed the report, terming it a plot by malicious detractors to paint him in bad light. Douglas Kariuki On February 18, the first and longest serving mayor of Thika, Kariuki Mundia, died. Family members confirmed that Mundia who has been ailing for a long time died aged 95. Various leaders led by Thika Town MP Patrick Wainaina and ex-councillors forum Kiambu county chairman Ng'ang'a Wanjukira in separate condolence messages described the fallen former mayor as a legendary leader during his time. Mohammed Hatimy On 14 November, Mombasa ODM chairman Mohammed Hatimy, also a nominated MCA, died. Hatimy, who was among a number of Mombasa MCAs reported to have tested positive for Covid-19, succumbed at the Intensive Care Unit of Mombasa Hospital. Speaker Ibrahim Khatri said Hatimy died at 3am after his lungs collapsed. Lady Maureen Popular Ohangla musician, Maureen Ochieng popularly known as Lady Maureen died in July in Migori county. The musician who was battling long illness had been discharged from hospital and was recovering at home. The news of her demise was shared by her sister Bella Achieng who said the musician had been treated at the Pastor Machage Memorial Hospital in Migori.