 A private hospital in Migori has turned away patients and closed its doors, citing NHIF failure to remit over Sh1 million owed to the facility since 2018. Patients who sought services at Staken Nyarombo Hospital in Nyatike were shocked after the proprietor carted away equipment, saying she had closed the facility. NHIF has also been accused of failing to register new hospitals to serve mothers under the Universal Health Care programme. Another hospital in Isebania in Kuria West said it was on the brink of closure citing lack of accreditation. Patients have to pay from their pockets if they seek services at facilities not accredited by the insurer. In most cases, patients can't afford the costs. At Staken Nyarombo, proprietor Mary Ngao says NHIF has not paid even for services rendered to patients covered by the scheme. The amount owed does not cater for the Linda Mama programme which covers deliveries in hospitals, a key component in ending mother and child mortality. Maureen Achieng, a mother of a four-month-old infant, said the nearest facility is more than five kilometers away. Medics are on strike there. “I was coming here (Staken Nyarombo) for ante-natal clinic and to have my child treated. This closure will really affect us as the facility offered NHIF services,” Achieng’ said. She said her card was facilitated by a local NGO but feared it may never be used as the cost of seeking medical services in the other facilities was expensive. In Isebania town at the border with Tanzania, residents have demanded Bwana Ni Mwema Medical Centre be given NHIF charter to cater for the medical needs. The private facility offers specialised services but has unsuccessfully been trying to get listed with the national health insurer. Tobias Range, a former Kehancha mayor, said the facility had applied to get clearance from NHIF more than a year ago. “The only hospitals which have been serving us are Isebania Subcounty Hospital and BNM Medical Centre. Both have been offering even referral services which we used to seek in Eldoret, Kisumu and Nairobi,” Range said. Doctor Caleb Marwa said he schooled at Momokoro Academy in Isebania town and chose to work in the locality so he could give back to society. He said he could not understand why NHIF was taking too long to accredit the hospital which has two doctors and a functional ambulance. He said the hospital started with 12 staff, including five nurses, two clinical officers and two lab technicians. “With two doctors, most hospitals in rural Kuria region and Tanzania used to refer patients here, but most can't afford treatment without NHIF which has seen us turn most patients away. The problems are beyond us,” he said. Mary Ngao, the proprietor at Staken Nyarombo Hospital, said she had to close down as she owed her landlord Sh391,000. She blamed NHIF for her predicament. “I have tried to seek redress from NHIF, but each time you inquire it is like talking to a stone wall. There is a deliberate bureaucratic maze created to frustrate stakeholders,” Ngao said. She added, "NHIF told me that they were going to take care of it, but nothing has been done. I have been requesting if I can be paid. Most of my staff have gone because there was no money to pay them." NHIF manager in Migori Mark Chepchieng said they were aware of the issues and that they were being addressed. "The case is with us and it is being handled," Chepchieng said. He denied claims of corruption, saying the office relied on transparency and treated every client equally.  Edited by P.O