ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi has lashed out at the government for giving health workers a deaf ear over their demands for better working conditions and pay. Mudavadi said health workers are at the country’s frontline warriors in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic and their grievances should be considered urgent. “We cannot have a government which is just giving empty promises to health workers especially during this trying moment when the country is facing a crisis as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic,” he stated. The ANC leader said complaints of lack of Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) and allowances for health workers are disheartening. He added that it is demoralising to hear doctors and nurses raise an alarm over inadequate masks, gloves and other essential protective gear they need to tackle Covid-19 cases in our health facilities. “This is no longer something to be taken lightly, especially now when we have an ever-increasing number of medical staff also succumbing to this virus. Why should the relevant government authorities wait for doctors to go on strike before addressing their needs?” wondered Mudavadi. Mudavadi stated that it is high time that the leadership of the country gets its priorities right especially with regards to equipping medics fighting the pandemic. The ANC leader was speaking in Wundanyi/Mbale Ward in Taita Taveta county where he was drumming up support for Julius Mwachila Julia, the ANC candidate for the forthcoming by-election on 15 December. He was accompanied by Matuga MP Kassim Tandaza and the National Chairman of ANC Party Kelvin Lunani. The Wundanyi/Mbale by-election has attracted at least 16 candidates. Mudavadi was quick to remind Kenyans that their choices at the ballot matter and said it was time that Kenyans learn to interrogate leaders before voting them in. “We need to interrogate then vote not vote then interrogate when already someone is occupying an office or a seat. Our poor decisions on the ballot have costed us for years as Kenyans. Why do you vote in someone knowing very well he is not going to be of service to the people?” posed Mudavadi. Mudavadi said recent incidences of impeachment especially for governors is a clear indication that some of the leaders whom Kenyans voted in are not servants of the people but self-centred and selfish politicians who have neglected the people. Mudavadi while cautioning the residents of Wundanyi/Mbale ward in Wundanyi constituency said the choice that they will make come Tuesday will dictate how their lives will move on especially in relation to matters of development. The ANC Leader who is seeking the Presidency come 2022 reiterated the need for Kenyans to vote for a leadership that will focus on resuscitating the economy and creating jobs for the youth. “Since 2015, I have been cautioning on this huge and unprecedented borrowing by the Jubilee Government. As a country, we are now facing a huge public debt. How do you then grow an economy, create jobs and enhance the lives of your people when you are indebted heavily?” said Mudavadi.