The diplomatic dispute between Kenya and Somalia is likely to play into the hands of insurgent group al Shabaab and deal a major blow to the country’s miraa trade. The two countries have not only been business buddies but have also been sharing crucial intelligence, especially on al Shabaab. Cooperation now appears unlikely after Somalia declared Kenya virtual enemy territory because of what it called meddling in its internal affairs and friendly relations with Somaliland, which Somalia claims. The falling out will be music to the ears of the insurgent group, which has opposed Kenya’s military intervention in Somalia. It has also attacked Kenya to drive home the get-out message. Kenya is the biggest troops contributor to the African Union Mission in Somalia (Amisom) and is estimated to have more than 3,600 soldiers stationed in Somalia. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula, who is a former Foreign Affairs minister, on Tuesday warned the deteriorating relationship is perilous. "The unhelpful tensions and negativity we are seeing are dangerous for the region. President Uhuru Kenyatta must step up diplomacy to restore normalcy between the sister states," he said. In an unprecedented move on Monday, Somalia announced it had severed diplomatic relations with Kenya, accusing the Uhuru administration of interfering in its internal politics weeks before a crucial general election. Somalia Information minister Osman Abukar Dubbe said the Mogadishu government gave Kenyan diplomats seven days to leave. It recalled its own diplomats stationed in Nairobi. “The federal government of Somalia reached this decision as an answer to the political violations and the Kenyan government’s continuous blatant interference recently in our country’s sovereignty,” Dubbe said. The decision came hours after President Kenyatta hosted the president of Somaliland, Muse Bihi Abdi, the northwestern region that declared independence from Somalia in 1991. Somaliland is not recognised internationally as a state but it has avoided the ruinous path of violence that has rocked the rest of Somalia. It has set up structures including administration units. It is feared al Shabaab will exploit Kenya-Somalia grievances to hit the country that has not given them peace since 2011. That was when KDF soldiers crossed into war-torn Somalia under Linda Nchi operation. Hussein Sheikh-Ali, a former national security adviser to President Mohamed Abdullahi Farmaajo, told The New York Times Somalia's head of state was "deliberately picking this diplomatic row with Kenya for electioneering purposes". The row, he warned, will have far-reaching consequences for both regional stability and counterterrorism efforts. Presidential campaigns have hit fever pitch in Somalia as rivals accuse Farmaajo of plotting to cling to power. In joint communiqué following the two-day talks between Uhuru and visiting Bihi, Kenya left no doubt that it was recognising Somaliland. The two leaders agreed Kenya will open a consulate in Hargeisa by end of March next year, while Somaliland will also upgrade its liaison office in Nairobi in the same time frame. "Kenya Airways and other Kenyan airlines to commence direct flights between Nairobi and Hargeisa by end of March 21," the communique said. Kenya and Somalia have had cool-to-frosty relations but their mutual severing of ties could take the relationship to a point of no return. Early this month, Somalia announced the suspension of its visa-on-arrival policy for Kenyans, citing the Covid-19 pandemic. The move ratcheted up diplomatic tension with Nairobi. Last month, Mogadishu sent Kenyan Ambassador Lt Gen (Rtd) Lucas Tembo packing for what it termed interference in local elections. The eastern neighbour is also entangled in an ugly maritime dispute with Kenya over 10,000 square kilometres, which ended up in International Court of Justice at The Hague. Despite the mounting tension, some analysts are playing down the impact of the icy relationship, likening it to only a dip in cross-border miraa trade. Negotiations for the resumption of miraa exports to Somalia, they said, will be thrown into disarray or halted by the diplomatic row. Somalia suspended the import of Kenyan miraa in March in efforts to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Macharia Munene, who teaches history and international relations at the US International University-Africa, termed Somalia’s reaction as political, having everything to do with the impending elections. “That is politics. He [Somali President Farmaajo] has been having a lot of trouble in his country and he is looking for a scapegoat. He thinks Kenya is a good one," Munene told the Star. He went on, “He does not have proper control of the country, there are rebellions in various states and he is lost. He is hoping that by creating tension with Kenya, Somali delegates will return him. He is facing very stiff opposition from two former presidents and a prime minister who just stepped down.” The university don said Farmaajo’s reactions will not affect Amisom operations to flush out al Shabaab militants, adding the troops will only withdraw under AU timelines. “The Amisom will go on according to its timelines,” Munene said. There were fears Kenya could retaliate by withdrawing KDF troops from troubled Somalia. But early Tuesday, government spokesperson Col (Rtd) Cyrus Oguna said the government will not follow the same route taken by Somali, adding that Kenya will set up a team to seek a diplomatic solution. “We are a higher nation; we cannot do the same thing Somalia has done. If we do so it will look like revenge, hence, we will let the Igad and Comesa take control of it,” Oguna said. Saboti MP Caleb Amisi, who sits in the Defence and Foreign Affairs Committee of the National Assembly, said the main casualty of the row will be the miraa trade. He downplayed the implications for the presence of Kenyan troops in Somalia. “Kenya depends on the Somali market for the miraa, most miraa consumers are from Somalia. When they [Somalia[ does that, it just scares away transporters and miraa and business people across the country,” Amisi said. He added, “In a real sense it is not a big deal that cannot be solved.” Somalia is one of the biggest importers of the stimulant and during pre-Covid days, about 30 daily flights ferried the commodity to Mogadishu. The Saboti MP said Kenya has not interfered with Somalia's internal affairs as claimed but is a victim after engaging one the Somali federal states. “The world of diplomacy is very complicated and sometimes what we see is beyond reality. We are dealing with the country constantly at loggerheads with each other. When you meet the leader of one country, you are the enemy of the other one so it will react in a manner to will show it exists,” the lawmaker said. “It is not a real diplomatic tiff it is a reactionary measure from a brother who feels you have seen another brother without his knowledge. John Gachie said Kenya is sending a message to Mogadishu — with Somaliland as a kind of leverage — that it cannot be pushed around as far as trade, security and diplomacy are concerned. Gachie is a former foreign affairs editor at the Nation and expert on Horn of Africa affairs. “We are in for interesting times but we will see a lot of backroom talks between Somalia and Kenya, possibly through Ethiopia as the two states try to deescalate the tensions,” he said. Rashid Abid, a Horn of Africa analyst, questioned Somalia’s decision to cut relations. He said Ethiopia has troops in Somalia, has meddled in Somalia for years yet Mogadishu is yet to sever relations with Addis Ababa. “Let’s be honest. The crisis in Kenya-Somalia ties is [President Mohamed] Farmaajo’s antipathy to Kenya and Jubaland,” Abdi said. (Edited by V. Graham) 