Kakamega Homeboyz chairman Cleophas Shimanyula has promised his players better packages this season after nailing down a shirt sponsor. Homeboyz are scheduled to unveil their partner who will bankroll them for the next one year to a tune of Sh20 million on Tuesday next week. Shimanyula, who declined to reveal the name of the sponsor, said the windfall will solely go in improving the salaries and allowances given to the team currently. The vocal administrator expressed optimism that the increased income by the playing unit will enable them to win the league this season after coming close in the previous campaign. Homeboyz proved to be a strong candidate for the title last season before their ambition was cut short in March following the first case of coronavirus in the country. "We have gotten a shirt sponsor for the first time since the club's inception in 2009. The deal, valued at Sh 20 million, will run for the next one year.The management has resolved to use the money to improve the terms of the players contracts which we believe will trigger positive performance going forward. We intend to unveil the sponsor next week, " he said. With the new development, the club was widely expected to make their debut in the Football Kenya Federation (FKF)  Shield Cup this season but Shimanyula said their efforts were concentrated on winning the league instead. "The club will not feature in the Shield Cup even though we are open to that idea in the future. We want to work towards winning the league this time round. We came close last season and I hope with player welfare now well taken care of, the players will step up on the pitch and deliver in line with the target set," he said. Apart from the financial boost, the technical bench can afford a smile ahead of their league match against Ulinzi Stars as six players have returned to the team. Shimanyula said the six were unavailable during the past duels on various grounds which include injuries and illness. "We did not start the league well as we missed six players who were ruled out on different reasons. They had all resumed training by the end of last week and will be available for selection when we play Ulinzi," he added