Officers effecting arrests of senators and MPs must first seek approval from the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, according to new guidelines to the regional bosses. Deputy IG Edward Mbugua in a notice to regional commanders said his office must be notified before any MP is arrested. “It has been directed that before making an arrest of a member of the Senate or National Assembly consultations will be done through the Deputy Inspector General, Kenya Police Service, for concurrence and further direction,” reads the notice. Mbugua addressed the notice to regional police commanders Marcus Ocholla (Rift Valley), Rashid Yakub (Nairobi) and Peris Kimani (Western). The directive applies down to the station level. “All commanders to acknowledge receipt and compliance to their immediate command i.e OCS to SCPC, SCPC to CPC, CPC to RPC and RPC to DIG KPS,” he said. Inspector-General of Police Hillary Mutyambai appears to have yielded to the lawmakers' demands for ‘honourable’ arrests. Sources in Parliament said the notice was the result of consultations between the National Assembly leadership and the IG. The IG through his deputy will first consult the two speakers of Parliament before arresting the members, the source said. "You will no longer see the dramatic arrests as has been the case in the past. They must consult the speakers,” he said. Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka could neither confirm nor deny that an agreement between the police and parliamentary leadership had been reached. “I am not aware of any agreement but let me consult somewhere,” Lusaka told the Star on Wednesday. The notice came against the backdrop of protests by MPs about arbitrary arrests. In August, three senators were arrested at dawn by a contingent of DCI officers who had kept vigil outside their homes in Nairobi for nearly 10 hours. Cleophas Malala (Kakamega), Steve Lelegwe (Samburu) and Christopher Lang'at (Bomet) were later ferried to their respective counties. They were questioned by the police and released. The arrests, which happened as the lawmakers were expected to take a crucial vote on the revenue sharing among counties, sparked fierce protests from their colleagues. Earlier, Senator Johnson Sakaja had been arrested for breaching Covid-19 regulations. MPs Babu Owino (Embakasi East) and Charles Njagua (Starehe) had also been dramatically arrested by the DCI officers. 