Kenya's national Tong-Il Moo-Do team, Jasiri, continued their impressive performance at the Mombasa Open International Tong IL- Moo Do Championships at Aga Khan Academy with a total medal haul of 52 to edge ahead of their arch-rivals Philippines. On the final day of the championship, the home team had bagged 21 gold, 19 silver and 12 bronze in sparring and form categories. "This year has been more competitive compared to previous editions. However, as Team Jasiri, we are ever determined to win more medals," team captain Collins Ndunda said. The 2019 World Martial Arts Masters Championships champion Lorna Abiero was in the form of her life as she won gold in the green belt female individuals category ahead of Mombasa-based Jacqueline Muli. After clinching gold in the forms category, Hope Christine continued her exceptional performance to clinch gold in the 40-47 kg sparring category. Similarly, Kyla Nyambura added another gold medal to her collection with victory in the 20-35 sparring category. It was a Kenyan affair in the 48-52kg girls' sparring category as Eun Kariuki trumped Nina Inan and Lavender Mmbone to clinch gold whereas the other two were contented with silver and bronze respectively. Kariuki bagged another gold medal in the girls' under-18 forms category. After narrowly losing out in the junior boys' forms category, Harun Gathogo bounced back to win gold in the 20-29kg sparring division. In the boys' 56-60kg category, Jungs Ouda was in a class of his own as he bagged gold ahead of compatriot Victor Kahindi. It was similarly a Kenyan affair in the boys' 30-35kg division as Mathew Kongani, Preston Cimiwalks and Samuel Nyaga clinched gold, silver and bronze. However, it was not so rosy for Kenya's Denis Oyugi who lost out to Philippine's Jonel Salve. Kenya will be hoping to match its virtuoso performance at the seventh edition of the tourney in 2019 when the country bagged 113 medals (31 gold, 36 silver and 46 bronze). Other countries that have sent participants at the event — sponsored by the Ministry of Sports — include Japan, Cote de Ivoire, Turkey, Iran, Thailand, Brazil, South Korea and Congo Brazzaville.