A magistrate has sued to challenge her transfer from her current station Nyeri to Nairobi within 20 days. Damacline Bosibori says illegal transfers have caused her immense frustration and embarrassment amongst her family and friends. “The JSC [Judicial Service Commission] conduct has adversely affected and led to the decline of Bosibori’s physical and psychological health. She is constantly stressed frustrated and embarrassed amongst her family, friends, peers subordinates stakeholders and the public whom she is supposed to serve,” read court papers. Bosibori has sued the Chief Justice, the JSC, the Chief Registrar, Nyeri Law Courts presiding judge Jairus Ngaah, chief magistrate Wendy Micheni and chief magistrate Lucy Mutai of Nanyuki Law Courts. She has also accused her seniors in Nyeri of barring her from office by refusing to include her to a cause list, which means that she cannot work. The magistrate further says she been barred from office even though she is required to clear all the files she was handling in her court. “The Chief Justice has issued a transfer requiring the magistrate to uproot her life and move across stations across several counties within 20 days. The said transfer has been made in total disregard to the petitioner’s mental and physical health and psycho-social support system that she has around Mt Kenya region,” court papers read in part. She argues that there were no objectively justifiable reasons to deny her access to her workplace as the Judiciary has no such authority, power or discretion. Bosibori says she has been denied the right to work by being removed from the cause list, making it impossible for her to make daily court returns, a key performance indicator for judicial officers. “Without a review and evaluation of her returns, she has no hope of securing a promotion and her career progression is essentially stagnant at the moment,” the affidavit says. Bosibori says she was employed in October 2017 and was then posted to Nanyuki Law Courts. While in Nanyuki, there was a dispute relating to her handling of criminal matters between her and the chief magistrate. According to court records, Bosibori was denied a prosecution counsel to serve her court, thus creating "a toxic working environment that affected her psychological health that led to her having to seek medical attention". She alleges that the chief magistrate once took her off the criminal cause list for a month contrary to the law and proceeded for annual leave, while the presiding judge was also on leave, leaving her with no avenue for recourse. “Following the misconduct on the part of the prosecution and the aforementioned dispute, the Chief Justice and the Registrar transferred her to Mariakani Law Courts without proffering any reasons,” court documents read. She further claims the JSC wilfully neglected to hear or resolve the dispute between the magistrate and the prosecution, which has hang over every station she works at and keeps spilling over to other stakeholders. After she raised an objection to her transfer to Mariakani on the grounds that the matter had not been resolved and on medical grounds, JSC agreed to reroute her to Nyeri so that she could continue attending her medical clinic and be near her family and friends. She wants the court to restrain the JSC from effecting any other transfer or/ and disciplinary proceedings or actions of any shape against her unless as anticipated by law but devoid of malice, prejudice and discrimination. 