The covid -19 pandemic will provide an opportunity to break with the past and reshape the nation through new policies, ways of working and living, Wajir governor Mohamed Abdi has said. Abdi said the economy has been driven to its knees as a result of measures taken to slow the spread of the coronavirus and thousands of Kenyans have lost their jobs as most businesses are struggling to stay afloat. Speaking on Sunday when he officially closed a three-day workshop for Wajir County COVID-19 Emergency Response Team, he said the virus has hit the country hard but urged Kenyans to remain positive for a  better tomorrow. The Workshop dubbed "Effective Leadership in Management of COVID-19 in Public Service" was used to appreciate County Emergency Response Committee in mitigating COVID-19 effects at the workplace, help build the capacity of stakeholders in response to emerging local issues and global trends. “Effective leadership in a prolonged crisis with such serious consequences is necessary for the government and its people and requires physical, psychological and emotional bravery‚” he said. Abdi said the National and County governments have taken steps to fight the pandemic and mitigate its adverse effects, but there is still a long way to go in terms of awareness and allocation of resources to those in the frontline fighting the pandemic. “It is clear the capacity of the public officers and officials to implement the mitigation measures put in place is seriously inadequate. There is an urgent need to build the capacity of the leadership and higher positions of government at both levels to manage this crisis‚” he said. The county chief asked the facilitators to actualize the recommendations coming out of the meeting to contain the second wave of the virus. Some of the recommendations include religious sector to put more effort in the fight against covid, education stakeholders to urgently convene and prepare for the reopening of schools, establishment of counselling and guidance in all institutions to focus on mental health and stigma issues. In attendance included the county security team, religious leaders, NGOs, national and county government officials. It was also agreed that there is a need for the County emergency team to regularly meet to evaluate progress and challenges.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris