This festive season, there’s a new Christmas movie coming to Showmax every day until 25 December. Showmax has put together its biggest ever pile of presents for our audiences, with some African Christmas films, Christmas specials from HBO, and over 30 international films, including Emilia Clarke (Game of Thrones) and Henry Golding (Crazy Rich Asians) in the 2019 blockbuster Last Christmas. Some key titles to watch out for include HBO’s Euphoria’s two-episode Christmas special which follows Rue (Zendaya) as she celebrates Christmas, in the aftermath of being left by Jules at the train station and falling back into old habits. Zendaya became the youngest ever best actress Emmy-winner this year for her performance in Euphoria as Rue, a 17-year-old who returns home from rehab with no plans to stay clean, and falls for the new girl in town, Jules (played by trans superstar Hunter Schafer). Euphoria also won 2020 Emmys for Original Music and Lyrics for All For Us by Labrinth, as well as Contemporary Makeup (Non-Prosthetic). The second episode comes to Showmax in January. Watch the trailer: The romantic comedy Last Christmas, which lands on Showmax on 21 December, follows Kate (Emilia Clarke) who harrumphs around London, a bundle of bad decisions accompanied by the jangle of bells on her shoes, another irritating consequence from her job as an elf in a year-round Christmas shop. Tom (Henry Golding) seems too good to be true when he walks into her life and starts to see through so many of Kate’s barriers. As London transforms for the most wonderful time of the year, nothing should work for these two. But sometimes, you gotta let the snow fall where it may; you gotta listen to your heart. And if that doesn’t have you overflowing with Christmas spirit, Showmax also offers you the classic Senegalese short film, Dyana Gaye’s Deweneti, which won the Special Jury Award: International at Clermont-Ferrand, the world’s most prestigious short film festival, among other awards for its story about Ousmane, a beggar on the streets of Dakar, who decides to write a letter to Santa. Or rewatch favourites, like the Annecy-winning Julia Donaldson animation Stick Man, animated in South Africa by Triggerfish; Golden Globe-nominated animation Arthur Christmas; box office hit A Bad Moms Christmas, with Mila Kunis, Kristen Bell and Kathryn Hahn; or with the kids, Peppa Pig’s Christmas Party special or A Garfield Christmas. And we haven’t even started on Christmas episodes of your favourite shows: this year, we especially recommend Santa, Schmanta from the Emmy-nominated animation American Dad!, where Roger the alien converts to Judaism and tries to make Hanukkah more popular than Christmas. More Christmas movies to watch include A Christmas Princess, A Christmas Surprise, A New York Christmas Wedding, A Royal Christmas Engagement, A Taste of Christmas, Another Christmas Coincidence, A Very Nutty Christmas and so much more. Check out the whole Showmax Christmas Countdown collection here.