The Japanese International Cooperation Agency Volunteer programme is one of the principal activities of Jica as part of its international cooperation carried out on behalf of the Japanese government. It was established in 1965 to provide technical assistance at grassroots level. Volunteers have skills, experience and professional qualifications in teaching, nursing, agriculture and engineering, among other fields. The first batch of volunteers for Kenya were dispatched in 1966 and since then, nearly 1,600 Japanese volunteers have worked across Kenya. Since 2010, 18 Japan Overseas Cooperation Volunteers (JOCVs) have worked in Kenya’s primary and secondary schools as teachers. Jica has helped Kenya improve students’ performance in science and mathematics through a project implemented in collaboration with the Centre for Mathematics, Science and Technology Education in Africa (Cemastea). Cemastea, under the Ministry of Education, has a mandate is to build the capacity of mathematics and science teachers for effective classroom practices. Through the Strengthening of Mathematics and Science Education (SMASE) project, a grant aid was extended to Kenya by the Government of Japan. This led to the construction of a modern facility in Cemastea, whose inauguration President Kenyatta attended in 2014. The Government of Japan has also offered financial assistance for non-profit development organisations for projects at community level through the Grant Assistance for Grassroots Human Security Projects scheme. In 2020, Kakapel Special School for Hearing Impairment received a grant of about Sh10.6 million (USD 111,825) to be used for the construction of two dormitories. The school is located in Teso North subcounty, Busia county, and has 131 pupils. Ogande Special School for the Mentally Handicapped also received a grant of about Sh10.6 million (USD 112,005) this year for the construction of two dormitories and a perimeter wall. The school is located in Homa Bay subcounty, Homa Bay county, and has 224 pupils.