Leaders and different party officials have been camping at Kisumu North Ward to rally for support for their candidates ahead of the upcoming county assembly member election set for December 15th. The seat became vacant after the area MCA Elisha Oraro was elected the county assembly speaker following successful impeachment of Onyango Oloo. The candidates vying for the seat are ODM's Samuel Dede, Ken Ogada of  Ford Kenya, Movement for Democracy and Growth (MDG) Hannington Ago, Maendeleo Chap Chap’s Ken Wagoi and ANC's John Ouko. On Saturday, Kisumu County Assembly Speaker Elisha Jack Oraro hosted ODM party officials and supporters at Buoye grounds to rally for support to ODM flag bearer Dede. Oraro was accompanied by Deputy Governor Mathews Owili, Women Representative Rosa Akinyi Buyu,  ODM National Youth League President John Ketorah, His Deputy, ODM National Youth Coordinator Benson Musungu, ODM County Chairman Ayiecho Olweny including various MCAs. Oraro noted the importance of voting in an ODM member since this will enable one to be in a sectoral committee which accommodates a larger percentage of a dominant party thus ease the process of lobbying for developments which come to the ward level. “I was an ODM member and it's important the heir be ODM member to fulfil the manifesto I had,” he said. Moses Wetangula (Ford Kenya), Cleophas Malala (Amani National Congress), Ugenya MP David Ochieng and Alfred Mutua (Maendeleo Chap Chap)have been camping at the ward to rally for support for their candidates. Ochieng stated that there was a need for Nyanza people to elect political leaders because of what they can offer and not because of the party affiliation. Mutua five days ago was also in Dago and Bonde area within the ward to drum up support for his candidate. On 29th November, the three were in Kisumu to campaign in what is seen as a desire to at least have a representative in the County Assembly. Wetangula met party officials and members at a hotel in Kisumu before promising to camp in the ward to campaign for  Ogada. "We are serious about the seat and next week we will be here to campaign for our candidate,” Wetangula said Malala was also in the ward campaigning for  Ouko.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris