Kenya Power has cautioned Kenyans intending to shift to solar energy to be wary of cons who purport to be experts in the field but end up fleecing them. CEO Bernard Ngugi instead advised Kenyans to seek the services of the company in case they need to shift to solar. Ngugi said Kenya Power has also embarked on installing solar panels for its customers to give them an effective alternative source of energy. “We are the energy solution providers of choice. Come to us and we will give you that alternative by ensuring that we facilitate you to get the right solar power because we understand electricity better than anybody else,” he said. Ngugi spoke at Karatina in Nyeri county on Friday during the launch of Sh800 million electricity network management programme aimed at maintaining the electricity network countrywide. He clarified that the company is not worried about Kenyans going for an alternative source of energy, saying that they are entitled to do so. “I am aware it has come out like Kenya Power is worried about solar. Why should it worry us? We are part of the solar,” he said. The CEO said the company will ensure that people who can afford to put up bigger solar projects use what they can and sell the surplus to KPLC, therefore, earning an income. The surplus sold to the company at a lower tariff will be passed over to other customers and to the economy to benefit, he said. He was responding to questions from journalists who sought to know whether the company was worried about Kenyans turning to solar as an alternative source of energy. Some customers, especially the heavy consumers of energy, have been turning to solar which is more affordable. There have been reports that the company has raised the alarm that it could end up losing industrial customers who account for 54.8 per cent of its sales. Media reports said the state was introducing new regulations in a bid to police the solar industry. But the Energy Petroleum Regulatory Authority has denied that the regulations were meant to protect Kenya Power. Ngugi said KPLC is carrying out a comprehensive audit of the country’s electricity network to identify issues requiring corrective action and reinforcing the grid to enhance its robustness. The programme is aimed at enhancing the company’s service delivery and reduce power outages. Edited by Henry Makori