President Uhuru Kenyatta has affirmed Kenya is committed to her international partners and that the country will continue cultivating strong diplomatic ties. The President spoke on Tuesday at State House, Nairobi, when he received credentials from 11 new ambassadors. “We are grateful to our international partners and value the relationships that we have forged and that has played a big role in the development of our country," Uhuru said. He attributed some of Kenya's recent successes especially in the rollout of Big 4 Agenda programs to the support the country continues to receive from its international partners. The president expressed optimism that the country will be able to overcome the economic slowdown caused by Covid-19. “The pandemic has slowed down many things but we are hopeful that in the coming year we will be able to get things running.” The incoming ambassadors delivered greetings from their countries and assured of their commitment to the deepening of ties between Kenya and their home nations. The diplomats singled out agriculture, manufacturing, education, and security as some of the priority sectors of collaboration as they settle down in Nairobi. They also congratulated the president on Kenya’s election to the UNSC and assured him of their countries support as the country takes up its non-permanent seat. "Welcome to Kenya and feel at home. We will continue to interact in various arenas as duty calls," Uhuru said. The envoys included Virander Kumal Paul (India), Monica De Greiff Lindo (Colombia), Sasirit Tangulrat (Thailand) and Nguyen Nam Tien (Vietnam), Kampampa Joyce Kasosa (Zambia), and Mohamad Hery Saripudin (Indonesia). Others were Zsolt Meszaros (Hungary), Antonios Sgouropoulos (Greece), Sidik Spahic (Bosnia and Herzegovina), Vellupillai Kananathan (Sri Lanka), and Luke Joseph Williams (Australia). Present during the presentation of credentials were Foreign CS Raychelle Omamo, PS Macharia Kamau, and State House Comptroller Kinuthia Mbugua among other senior government officials.