The chief justice performs a wide range of judicial, administrative and ceremonial duties provided for under the 2010 Constitution and various statutes. We therefore need a person who is intellectually brilliant. Kenyans need an extremely rational person. One who relies on intellect rather than on emotions or feelings. We do not just want someone who is intelligent but a very intelligent person. The chief justice, as the president and head of the Supreme Court of Kenya, sits on the bench of the court and gives directions on which associate justices are to preside over cases. He or she should therefore be very experienced in court matters. This person should patient, open-minded, courageous, understanding and have a sense of humility and common sense. The next chief justice should be a person who has a wonderful record in administration. This would entail being deadline-driven and possessing a high level of organisational skills. That person should be able to balance multiple tasks simultaneously and delegate duties when appropriate. He/she should be good at planning and have the ability to think strategically. The incoming chief justice must also have unimpeachable integrity. This means that the person should have strong ethical or moral principles and follow them at all times, without being followed or watched. This is an office where integrity is almost everything. We expect the new CJ to act honestly and with honour and truthfulness in the course of his/her work. Another thing we want in the next CJ is someone who will not yield to political pressure when making certain decisions. Kenya needs a person who will make decisions based on what he/she believes is right and will not be making determinations to impress the political class. I personally would not want to see someone who is a political appointee in that office as this would undermine separation of powers. By political appointee, I mean someone who is fronted by the political wing of the Executive. Anyone who does not have the qualifications mentioned above should not hold the position of chief justice The lawyer spoke to the Star