The second half of December, popularly known as the festive period, is a period of travel, parties and events. But this year presents uncertainties on whether to get on with Christmas as usual or to stay home. While the official advice right now is for people to stay where they are and minimise travelling, the festive period marks one of the few times each year when many Kenyans travel to their rural homes to catch up with family. The Covid-19 pandemic creates a dilemma between family tradition and adherence to health measures. With no let-up in new Covid-19 infections, there are calls for the government to restrict movement between various parts of Kenya. As the National Emergency Response Committee prepared to meet on Monday, media reports emerged that the Council of Governors had called on the President to impose a lockdown that would prevent mass travel across the country. A few weeks before the governors' recommendation, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe hinted that travel restrictions were among options that may be imposed to control the increase in Covid-19 infections. In Africa, the head of the Africa Centre for Disease Control and Prevention has expressed fears that widespread travel during the Christmas festivities could drive the pandemic. Meanwhile, many countries in Europe have imposed tough measures that effectively restrict the movement of people beyond their usual places of residence. The US has not imposed movement restrictions but the Centre for Disease Control is urging people to consider staying home this Christmas to curb the spread of infections. With schools in Kenya partially open, scheduled to close on December 23 and expected to reopen on January 4, many families were planning to stay where they are. On the other hand, severe travel restrictions could affect the movement of teachers and learners heading home when schools close then back to school in January. Furthermore, holiday travel is a large part of the economy and movement restrictions are likely to result in job losses, just like the previous restrictions that were lifted in July. The CDC offers some tips for those who really must travel during the Christmas festivities: