Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa has asked governors to invest in civic education to sensitise Kenyans on the contents of the BBI. He said Kenyans need to understand the benefits that will come with endorsing the document for them to fully support the process. “It is the right of Kenyans to be educated on important issues, including the BBI,” he said Devolution, Eugene said, would be the biggest beneficiary if the proposals in the document were approved. He said governors have the responsibility to fully support the BBI process by ensuring civic education is conducted at all levels. “I want to appeal to the governors because they have budgets for civic education and public participation, that the law allows you, so play your part in ensuring that in our counties and in our subcounties civic education is done so that Kenyans understand that the BBI tree is loaded with fruits.” Eugene spoke at Bukalama in Busia when he launched the BBI signature collection drive. At least one million signatures are required to move the process to the next level. He said the process is now entering a critical stage when leaders are expected to drum up support for its endorsement. “We have to continue with civic education. What is important now is for us to return to the grassroots. Let us go back to our subcounties and the wards so that we preach the gospel of the BBI.” The CS was accompanied by Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and his Busia counterpart Sospeter Ojaamong. Oparanya said residents of the Western region, which is largely an agricultural zone, will not lose out if the BBI is approved. “I want the people from Western Kenya to walk together. You all know that the economy of this region is on its knees. We heavily depend on agriculture yet the sector is struggling,” the Council of Governors chairman said. “If you look at the BBI report it says the agriculture sector will receive more money to help small-scale farmers and this will revive our economy. Agriculture is very important for our people.” He said it is impossible to print BBI reports for every Kenyan to receive a copy and citizens should trust what their elected leaders tell them is contained in the document. “In Busia here if Ojaamong has read the document, it means all the people of Busia have read it, you should therefore have confidence in him. If he says the report is good, you should be in agreement,” Oparanya said. Ojaamong said BBI, an initiative of President Uhuru Kenyatta and his handshake partner ODM leader Raila Odinga, also focuses on uniting Kenyans. The former Amagoro MP said like any other initiative, the BBI process will receive opposition. “Not everything that everyone wants has been included but as a trained teacher, I know very few students score 100 per cent in class. So don’t allow anyone to come and deceive you that there is nothing to benefit us in the BBI,” he said. The governor said the BBI is all about inclusion where every Kenyan will have a feel of being part of the government. Others present included Western regional coordinator Esther Maina, regional police commander Peris Kimani, Busia county commissioner Joseph Kanyiri, Busia county police commander John Nyoike and Busia Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi.