Embattled Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko faces a myriad of accusations that could eject him from office and leave his political career crushed. In the allegations sent to the Senate, Nairobi MCAs accuse Sonko of presiding over ‘massive loss and theft’ of public funds amounting to Sh204.2 billion and bloating the county’s debt from Sh56 billion in 2017 to Sh76.7 billion last year. Sonko is also accused of harassing, intimidating and molesting county officers and using City Hall cash to fly his daughter to New York, USA to attend County First Lady’s Conference. The ward representatives argue that the actions amount to abuse of office contrary to Article 75 of the Constitution together with Section 11 of the Leadership and Integrity Act, 2012, on the conduct of state officers. “He has been blackmailing his county executive committee members and chief officers with one-year contracts, whose renewal he has undertaken, leaving the officers anxious about their employment and creating a climate of fear and uncertainty,” the charges read. MCAs claim Sonko’s inadequacies, at one time, between 2018 and early 2019, saw one officer Winfred Gathagu serve as Finance executive and finance chief officer at the same time. The situation led to confusion and inefficiencies at the finance department, hence failing to promote good governance, and compromising the doctrine of transparency and accountability within the county government. They say the governor has disabled the operations of the Nairobi Metropolitan Services (NMS) by denying it cash and statutory instruments including crucial documents. “The governor’s continued willful refusal to execute the statutory warrants essential to the release of funds from the CRF has grounded the provision of services of not only the county executive but of the NMS and its exercise of the transferred functions,” reads the charge’s This action violates the provisions of Article 187(2) (a) of the Constitution and Article 5.2 of the Deed of Transfer, the MCAs allege. Sonko will on Wednesday and Thursday next week face senate plenary to counter the accusations. The governor has assembled a team of lawyers led by Cecil Miller, George Kathi and Harrison Kinyanjui to dismantle the allegations. He has also intensified lobbying in and outside Parliament to save his job and career. During a special sitting on Wednesday, senators failed to form an 11-member committee to hear the charges as Majority leader Samuel Poghisio declined to give a notice of motion to debate the formation of the panel. After the hearings, the senators will take a vote on each of the four charges. Should, at least 24 elected senators, or their representatives uphold any of the charges, the governor shall stand impeached. In the charges, the MCAs say Sonko has eroded public trust and brought dishonour to the office of the governor in his social media posts that claimed he was intoxicated and thus not in the right frame of mind when he signed the Deed of Transfer for the transfer of four key functions of the county administration to the national government. “The governor has violated Article 73 of the Constitution by failing to promote public confidence in the integrity in the office of the governor following his being charged before the Anti-corruption court, thus prejudicing and or compromising the social contract and trust bestowed upon him by the people of Nairobi by virtue of Article 1 of the Constitution.” The governor has also been accused of violating Article 227(1) of the Constitution on procurement of goods and services together with provisions of the Public Procurement and Disposal Act, 2015 by flouting the principles of public finance management in procuring goods and services. They say Sonko draws a salary and hefty allowances and enjoys the privileges of the office he holds while failing to report to work and being absent, even before he was formally restrained by the courts from accessing his office due to corruption charges in December last year. They claimed the governor remained constantly unreachable in person or on his phone for long periods of time, to the huge detriment of the performance of the functions of the executive. This, they reckoned, violated Article 73 of the Constitution and the Leadership and Integrity Act, 2012 on the responsibilities of leadership. The MCAs further say the governor has persistently used divisive and unbecoming language which undermines his office and the county administration contrary to Section 8 of the Leadership and Integrity Act, 2012 on Public Trust. “He has persistently and willfully been using, publicising and publishing abusive and unbecoming words and language, as evidenced on his social media posts and numerous rants, in which he has hurled abuses and conducted himself in a manner that undermines and demeans the office of the governor.”  Edited by Kiilu Damaris