Kirinyaga Woman Representative Wangui Ngirici has said she is ready to support  youth and women in the county to register companies so they can get government tenders. She said many young people and women in Kirinyaga do not benefit from government tenders since they do not have the necessary documents. “I am asking such groups to urgently come to our Kerugoya office where they can receive support and be assisted to have their companies registered,” she said. Ngirici said youth, women and people with disabilities should bid for the 30 per cent tenders reserved by the government for them. Ngirici said only 20 per cent of the entire group has attempted to apply for tenders. “It has come to my knowledge that women and youth in Kirinyaga have not been going for the tenders from the county government, I can only follow up if you apply.” The Woman Rep urged women to form groups and saccos to benefit from the affirmative fund. Ngirici made the remarks at Wanguru town in Mwea East subcounty where she distributed food donations to orphans and the aged. The event was organised by Ngirici and Sons Rescue Team. She also raised concerns about the rise in cancer cases in the county. She urged the county government to set up a screening centre at the Kerugoya Level 4 Hospital. Ngirici said remedial actions should be taken to contain usage of harmful chemicals to produce horticultural products, which could trigger cancer in humans. She said since residents extensively use chemicals in farming, authorities should start a serious campaign to crack down on harmful chemicals. “We want the county government to establish a team of experts to monitor harmful agrochemicals,” Ngirici said. “We are aware that some unscrupulous business people are responsible for dumping harmful chemicals in areas where unsuspecting farmers use them to grow crops only to end up sick.” Ngirici said she will concentrate more on a sustainable awareness campaign to reduce the high costs of treatment and facilitate free screening camps. 