Scattered rains might hit parts of the country this weekend, especially western Kenya and the Rift Valley highlands. However, the rest of the country should brace for hot weather that will stretch into next year, the Meteorological Department said. “Some parts of the northeast and the northwest are likely to experience strong easterly to south-easterly winds,” Met director Stella Aura added. Separately, Nairobi-based non-profit Oxfam predicted the number of hungry people would rise significantly as the country braces for the harsh, climate-fuelled La Niña. Lydia Zigomo, Oxfam Horn, East and Central Africa regional director, said: “The forecasted dry season will be the last straw for many, devastating their remaining crops and cutting their lifeline of food and income.” Farmers, who make up almost 80 per cent of the Horn of Africa’s population, have already been hit hard by severe floods and the biggest desert locust swarms in 70 years. Since January, locusts have damaged crops on 70,000 hectares in Kenya. Zigomo added: “Urgent action is needed to provide the assistance desperately needed by millions of hungry people.” The Global Seasonal Climate Update, produced by World Meteorological Organization last month, predicts uneven impacts of La Niña across Kenya, as areas around Lake Victoria might go unscathed. La Niña is often associated with dry conditions in East Africa and heavy rains in Southern Africa. Separately, the Intergovernmental Authority on Development, which partly monitors drought and desertification in the Horn of Africa, advised members not to ignore the warnings. “Poor production prospects could undo the gains made from the past two favourable seasons and could lead to a deterioration in food security in some parts of the region in early 2021,” Igad said in a statement. The agency urged countries to remain vigilant despite the two recent good rainfall seasons. “Communities across the region are still facing the impacts of desert locusts, floods and Covid-19 and are having very little time to adapt between climate shocks,” Igad said in a statement. The last time there was a strong La Niña was in 2010-11, followed by a moderate event in 2011-12. In a report of the 2010-11 La Niña, the Kenya Red Cross said that by January 2011 the severity of the situation did not yet warrant an emergency classification. However, over the succeeding six months, the situation deteriorated rapidly as the 2011 ‘long rains’ from March through May were depressed in Kenya. This was said to be "the worst drought in 60 years" in East Africa. “Insufficient collective action by government and their development partners to focus on early action, mitigation, and building the long-term resilience of people living in drought-affected areas, over short-term symptomatic relief, has enabled this increasingly deteriorating situation to occur,” Red Cross said in its report. The 2011 drought left about four million Kenyans in 18 counties surviving on food donations. Edited by Henry Makori