The remark by ODM chief Raila Odinga on doctors’ strike was taken out of context by detractors to paint him as insensitive, Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o has said. In a statement on Wednesday, Nyong’o accused Deputy President William Ruto of distorting the “sincere” and “humble” proposal by Raila to score political points. “The former Prime Minister made a very sincere appeal to health workers since they are essential in the struggle against the disease [Covid-19],” he said. On Tuesday, Raila was quoted as calling on health workers not to hold the government to ransom. "It's not only doctors who are dying. We are also in a hard position economically... this is not the time to hold the government at ransom," he said. The remarks did not augur well with the striking health workers and politicians. But Nyong’o said Raila’s comment was to urge doctors and health workers to dialogue with the government. “In the event that DP Ruto gets Covid-19, he will probably go to a private hospital. Mama Aoko, our next door neighbour in Rata village [in Seme] will go to Kombewa Subcounty Hospital. If doctors are on strike, Aoko will have a higher risk of losing her life than Dr Ruto,” he said. “The former Prime Minister was speaking on behalf of all the Aokos everywhere in Kenya. They need health workers on duty now, and not on strike.” Nyong’o, who is also the vice chair of the CoG’s committee on health, said it was hypocritical for Ruto to demand that counties swiftly meet the demands by the health workers, yet he [Ruto] presided over the reduction of funding in the current budget cycle. “Dr Ruto knows -as chairman of the IBEC (Inter-Governmental Budget and Economic Committee Council)- that his proposals depend on availability of funds to the counties. “During our committee meetings with him as governors on the Division of Revenue Bill, it was him who insisted that the revenue available to counties be reduced from Sh321 billion to Sh316 billion,” the governor said. "...as the second in command in government, what has he done to stop the delay of release of funds from the exchequer to counties? Counties have not received their money since the financial year began. Ruto, what is your take on this?" he added. Nyong’o said it is unfortunate that the DP was criticising the same government he is part of, rather than working to have the issue resolved. “Dr Ruto, as one would expect, would like us to forget that he is not part of the Uhuru Kenyatta-led government when it suits him and that he becomes part of the same government when it equally suits him.” On Wednesday,  Kenya National Union of Nurses secretary general Seth Panyako complained that politicians were politicising their concerns to score points rather than get them resolved. “The union shall only direct its members to report to duty when a thorough safety and health audit of all nursing workplaces shall have been carried out by a safety and health adviser and such findings agreed upon by the union,” he said. Nurses and clinical officers went on strike on Monday to demand, citing nonpayment of allowances, lack of protective gear among other grievances. So far, 13 doctors, 28 nurses and nine clinical officers have succumbed to the virus, with more than 1,200 infected.