It’s safe to say that had it not been for their defensive solidity, Nairobi City Stars would probably not be rubbing shoulders with elite clubs in the 2020/21 Kenyan Premier League season. At the heart of the impregnable wall of the runaway NSL leaders was man-mountain Salim ‘Shittu’ Abdalla. Born in Bungoma in 1990, Shittu started playing football when he was at Bukembe Primary School, following in the footsteps of his late father. “My idol, of course, was my father. He was a footballer when I was growing up and I looked up to him and that piqued my interest in the game very early on,” recalls Shittu. Like many kids, Shittu faced many challenges as he sought to forge a career in the world’s most popular sport. A vindictive step-mother was among the leading cause of his struggles to follow in the footsteps of his dad. “The challenge I faced was that no one was supportive nor wanted me to play football especially my step-mother, who would beat me up when I sneaked out to attend football activities.” Having surmounted the misgivings of his step-mother, it was time for Shittu to seek a path to achieve his dream, emulating his father. The chance came during the 2010 nation-wide Sakata Ball youth tournament. “I was scouted during the inaugural Sakata Ball tournament when I played for Bukembe from Bungoma. We won the national title during the finals at Nairobi’s City Stadium. From then on, opportunities came knocking my way. I went to Sony Sugar for trials and was selected by coach Francis  Barasa but I never signed,” says Shittu. “I was then taken to Ligi Ndogo in 2011 by coach Samuel Machio.” After just one year at the lower league side, Shittu was on the move again and signed for Premier League high-flyers Sofapaka. “I was still young in the game and Sofapaka had experienced defenders like Felly Mulumbu and that meant  lack of playing time. I had to move out on loan to get experience at the highest level. “I went to Posta Rangers on loan. At Posta, I quickly found my feet and played many games. I helped the club reach the Gotv final, coincidentally against Sofapaka but I couldn’t play since I was still contracted by the latter. I then decided to join Posta on a permanent deal and got employed too.” Shittu was starting to get recognition from other clubs and respect from his teammates. He helped Posta return to KPL and 2016, in a year the Postal Corporation outfit really challenged for a first-ever top-flight crown only to finish fourth under current KCB coach Zedekiah ‘Ziko’ Otieno. However, Shittu could do little in the second match of the new KPL season to stop his former coach from inflicting a first defeat on City Stars as the bankers won 1-0 on Friday to stay perched at the top of the Premier League table with six points from their two outings. Previously his impressive performances at then title dark horses Posta earned him a coveted move to AFC Leopards. “It was a switch that confirmed I had actually become a top player. It was among my dreams to play for a top club and I had achieved it. But I still knew we had to achieve something as a group for us to be a truly special part of Ingwes celebrated history,” recounted Shittu. His performances for Ingwe left him even hungrier to succeed at the highest level with opposing coaches and sometimes had to please fans commending him for his consistent top draw displays. “The best advice I received was when someone I had not seen before told me that how I play will eventually earn me an opportunity to play for a bigger club in the country or beyond. It is something that keeps me working hard every time I am in training or during a match,” says Shittu. Shittu's most memorable moment remains when he scored one of the goals that won his team the Gotv Shield. “Another good moment in my career is bringing Nairobi City Stars back to KPL after some years and also doing the same with Posta Rangers in 2015,” the defender, nicknamed after former Nigerian international Daniel Shittu points out. While he will surely have met many tough opponents in his days, both in the NSL and KPL, Shittu picks out Rwandese Jacques Tuyisenge, formerly of Gor Mahia and currently in the books of APR in his home country, as his most dangerous foe. “The guy knows how to sneak behind defenders and score before you even notice his presence,” Shittu chuckles. Shittu’s big frame, ability in the air, pace in closing down rampaging forwards and sniffing out danger has won him many admirers. However, he is yet to earn the recognition of national team Harambee Stars’ selectors but that has not diminished his confidence. “My ambition is to play in a big club abroad which I believe will bring opportunities to be in Harambee Stars,” he says. “For now though my focus is to help Simba Wa Nairobi to be competitive in the league.” Knowing fully too well of the financial struggles of footballers upon retirement, Shittu has invested his earnings in business ventures that currently supplement his income. “Outside football, I do some online business selling shoes and clothes. This is what I plan to do full time once my playing days are over,” he states. For now, though his sights remain on helping Sanjin Alagic’s Kawangware-based side build on their opening day victory and put more points on the board, the defeat against KCB notwithstanding. “It’s been a mixed bag of results so far but each outcome has offered lessons that will help us going forward,” quips the never-say-die defender.  BIO Name: Salim Abdalla Nickname: Shittu Age: 30 Place of Birth: Bungoma, Kenya Education: Bukembe Primary, Sirakaru High School Position: Defender Current Club: Nairobi City Stars Previous Clubs: Ligi Ndogo (2011), Sofapaka (2012), Posta Rangers (2013), AFC Leopards (2016) Honours Gotv Shield (2nd Place 2014, Posta Rangers) Gotv Shield Winner 2017 (AFC Leopards) NSL Winner 2015 (Posta Rangers), 2020 (City Stars)