The families of two remandees who died in police custody two weeks ago have appealed for justice. They were being held at Wang’uru police station. The two died at Kimbimbi Subcounty Hospital in the morning hours of November 22 where they were rushed from the police station. They had difficulty in breathing. A postmortem was Tuesday conducted on the bodies of John Njeru Muriuki, 28, and Martin Musyoka, 58, at the Kerugoya County Hospital mortuary by chief government pathologist Dr Johansen Oduor. A postmortem report showed the two had sustained extensive external injuries. The injuries were, however, not severe on the inside. Oduor said results also showed that the deceased suffered from insufficient oxygen. “From the findings, there are two possibilities that led to their death. Either they died from injuries while at the police cells or they suffocated as a result of stampede in the overcrowded cells,” Oduor said. He said further analysis will be carried out based on the two findings to unravel the mystery that led to the death of the duo. According to a report at the Mwea-based police station, the two died while receiving treatment at Kimbimbi Subcounty Hospital in the morning hours of November 22. "It was reported that at around 3.30am five prisoners were found in the cells. They appeared sick and had difficulty in breathing. They were immediately removed from the cell and rushed to Kimbimbi Subcounty Hospital." According to the report all the prisoners were complaining of difficulty in breathing and chest pains. Families’ lawyer Ndegwa Njiru said Covid-19 tests were conducted on the deceased and the results were negative. The families of Njeru and Musyoka said the two were arrested at different locations in Mwea during a crackdown on violators of Covid-19 protocols on November 20. “We were shocked to hear of their deaths when we got to Kimbimbi,” Musyoka’s relative said. Simon Muriuki, the father of Njeru, said he wants to know what led to the death of  his son. Njuru was a boda boda operator. “We want the government to get to the bottom of this matter,” the distraught father said. Rosalia Njeri, the widow of Njeru, said her two-year-old daughter has been rendered fatherless. "I have been left with a big burden of raising my daughter alone. I don’t know how I will do that as I don’t have an income. All in all, the faster we know what caused the death of my husband, the better it will be for all us,” she said. Jennifer Njeri, Musyoka's widow, said the death has dealt a big blow to the family as he was the family’s breadwinner “He was a mechanic, and through his work he supported our nine children. Life is going to be hard as my co-wife and I are unemployed”.  