A political stalwart is under pressure to step out and start campaigning for his own 2022 State House (pictured) bid. A source in the know says the forces behind him are keen to ensure he succeeds President Uhuru Kenyatta. But they have been dismayed with the politician's lacklustre attitude in succession politics. So uncomfortable is the powerful team that they summoned the man for a seven-hour meeting at a home of a tycoon businesswoman to read him the riot act. The man was told he should not expect to be given the presidency on a silver platter and must start fighting for it. *** The festive season is here with us and it has come with love that has swept an MP and a businesswoman off their feet. And an old adage also goes: “If you love something, let it go and if it comes back, it is yours forever." The vocal legislator has once again fallen in love with a renowned woman. The first-term legislator has been spotted several times in the company of the lady who is no stranger to controversy. So besotted is the MP with the moneyed woman, who badly fell out with another politician, that he confided to a key lieutenant that he plans to move in with her. It will be interesting to see how long the affair will last considering that the legislator is known not to stay in any relationship for very long. *** An ambitious politician who has his eyes fixed on a gubernatorial seat seems to be on a roller coaster. Reason? In the past two months, he has been moving from one political camp to another declaring his unwavering support for political leaders who lead the formations. His supporters are said to be confused and concerned about what their man actually stands for. Once the darling of many, the man is now beleaguered. He is reported to have fallen out of favour with his political party and is said to be on a mission to test the waters to see which political vehicle is popular in his county of choice. *** A renowned family has held on to state properties and equipment despite their relative having exited government duty for almost a year now. A mole familiar with the matter in the well-connected family says since the former public officer quit public service, the government has found it difficult to recall the properties since the man was so powerful. A property manager in the family is said to have declined to surrender them claiming another family member will soon be using them in the next government to be formed after the 2022 General Elections.  