The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has this year recovered Sh6.1 billion in assets and Sh209 million in cash in the war on corruption. Speaking during the International Anti-Corruption Day on Wednesday, EACC chairman Eliud Wabukala on Thursday said the commission was in the process of handing over the cash to the government. Wabukala said there was a need to enhance asset recovery as it would deter corruption. He said the commission will focus more on asset recovery as it is proving to be an effective way of averting graft. “We recovered two properties at Woodley area in Nairobi and very recently a prime land belonging to the meteorological department in the Industrial Area valued at Sh5 billion. I have heard that the government intends to build low-cost houses on the land,” Wabukala said. Other parcels of land and buildings have also been recovered in Kisumu, Mtwapa, Kitale, Eldoret and Nairobi's Karen area. “We are going to upscale this kind of activity. This will certainly be a deterrent to those who benefit from taking from the public. They must gain nothing and thereby lose motivation,” he added. Wabukala expressed optimism the country can win the fight against graft but "only if Kenyans come together to fight it." On Kenya Medical Supplies Agency, Wabukala said EACC had concluded two files and forwarded them to the Director of Public Prosecutions for action. Speaking earlier during an interview on Citizen TV, Wabukala said there the files are on public officers that were involved in the theft and eight companies that were used to steal public cash. “It is a huge work for us but we will go step by step. About 30 individuals are going to be charged and it is our hope that they will be found guilty. We will start with the eight companies,” he said. Wabukala said it was regrettable that some people benefited from public funds set aside to fight a pandemic. “Kenyans contributed money to the Covid-19 kitty then some people stole it. EACC and the DPP contributed Sh2 billion to the kitty and we are not happy that it was stolen. We are praying that those who stole this money will pay for their crimes.”  Edited by P.O