Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has warned politicians against turning funerals into political arenas. Speaking in Itundumimuni, Masinga, Machakos county, the Maendeleo Chap Chap party leader said such behaviour is selfish and impervious to the pain of the bereaved. He urged leaders to be sensitive and considerate. Mutua noted that the church leaders had the previous day asked the leaders not to engage in politics during the burial. He termed it political elite arrogance. “Shame on you. If you want to politic in a burial, you die and we come and talk there, but you don’t distress the family that has lost a loved one,” he said. His remarks came after some leaders politicked during the funeral of Machakos Senator Boniface Kabaka, prompting some mourners to walk out on Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka as he read President Uhuru Kenyatta's message of condolence. Some people defied the former Vice President and Ukambani kingpin's plea that they settle down and listen to the President's message. Kalonzo urged the mourners: "Just give a bit of a minute so that we hear the President's speech. If  you have to do that, please do so without talking." A large section of the large tent set up for the funeral service was left with empty seats. Unperturbed, the former VP finished the speech. The President described the senator as "a candid and dependable leader who loved all Kenyans without reservation". "I am informed that since his childhood, Senator Kabaka was focused and stood to excel in all his undertakings," the President's message read. "... God is a strength of my heart and my portion forever. We pray to almighty God to rest the soul of the late Senator Boniface Kabaka in everlasting peace," the speech read. Kalonzo's predicament could be linked to the high-octane politics that the Tangatanga team put up at the service. Sonko charged the ground, cautioning the Wiper leader to be wary of his dalliance with ODM leader Raila Odinga. He told Kalonzo to join Tangatanga and ditch the BBI brigade, claiming he is being duped and used to pass a "fake document". He said President Kenyatta and ODM boss Raila are lying to the Wiper leader. "They don’t mean anything good for you. They need you now because they want to pass the BBI. Sit down with Ruto and agree where you will take this country,” he said. He also claimed that powerful "calls from above" were made to senators to endorse his impeachment. Dismissing senators as cowards, Sonko said they were instructed to vote him out even though he was innocent. “I know many senators here are cowards.  They can’t say the truth. But because I don’t fear, I will say the truth,” he said. The visibly emotional Sonko added: “You senators, don’t fear. That order from above…order from above. Do your work according to the Constitution of Kenya.” Sonko was impeached last Thursday after 27 senators voted to uphold all the four charges he was accused of by the county assembly. “[Kirinyaga Governor Anne] Waiguru with the mistakes she committed, you forgave her... me, because I have protected and defended the Constitution, you have sent me home because you have received orders from above,” he said. The flashy politician said he will fight for his constitutional rights in court where he is seeking to have the IEBC barred from declaring a vacancy in the office of the Nairobi governor. “If you administered justice, then it was a good job, but if you didn’t give me justice, I leave it to God.  God will forgive you if you did not give me justice. But if I committed any wrong, then I admit,” he said amid cheers from the crowd. DP Ruto's allies decried what they 'termed' as double standards in dealing with governors facing graft allegations. 