At a meeting held on December 11, 2020, at the Ministry of Labour offices, it was agreed that the parties (county governments and Ministry of Health) submit written memoranda on the grievances raised by health workers. The Council of Governors' position on the grievances raised is as follows: All county governments have comprehensive medical cover. Nineteen counties are covered with NHIF whereas the remaining 28 have comprehensive medical cover from various private providers. There is no law that compels employers to procure NHIF. All county governments have designated health facilities for healthcare workers and their families who contract Covid-19 in the line of duty. We propose that unions reach out to the county departments of health to guide on the designated facilities at the respective counties. On non-payment of call allowance to all doctors working at the Health ministry, the Salaries and Remuneration Commission had given its pronunciation on this matter that needs to be adhered to. Further, this will also have a ripple effect and huge financial implication to the county governments' doctors who are carrying administrative duties. On enhancement and harmonised risk allowance, the SRC must approve any increments by the county governments. The county governments, through the CoG, wrote to the SRC on December 8, 2020, on the demand by the unions, and the commission has guided that the county public service boards negotiate with the respective trade unions with a view of retaining current rates of the risk allowance up to the end of the current review cycle. Regarding delay or non-payment of salaries to health workers, county governments have not received their monthly allocation for October, November and now December amounting to more than Sh60 billion. Some counties have had to take bank overdrafts to ensure that at least salaries are paid on time. But this cannot cover statutory remittances because of their huge monetary implications. We urge the unions to approach the respective county governments on issues that are county-specific to discuss their grievances with a view of resolving any outstanding grievances amicably. Jacqueline Mogeni, CEO of the Council of Governors, made the statement to the mediation team at the Ministry of Labour