"Sorry, I kept you waiting," said Munir Thabit, CEO of Grain Industries Limited, when we met him for an interview. The interview was scheduled for 11am. The man on the go showed up at 11.30, literally running in his Mombasa office. “Yesterday, a piece of equipment broke down and I had to stay until 4am when engineers managed to fix the problem. "That's when I went home for rest." Munir, 57, a former banker, is the brains behind Ajab wheat and maize flour. The award-winning company is doing well, competing with brands established more than a century ago. Grain Industries Limited also produces Asli Bakers’ Flour, GIL Noodles Flour and other products It started business on August 11, 2017, when Kenya’s political temperatures soared after the contested General Election. Kenyans had just voted on August 8, apparently reelecting President Uhuru Kenyatta. The opposition filed a petition in the Supreme Court, which nullified the win. A rerun was scheduled. “When everyone was closing down for the fear of election violence, we opened our doors,” Munir said. Everyone said he was crazy, but his strategy worked. A RISK-TAKER AND A WINNER Munir does not have a degree or an MBA, as many might expect of a successful businessman. Not quite yet. “I come from a very modest family. My father is an ex-clerk in the defunct Mombasa Municipal Council and I’m a banker with a Diploma in Banking, I do not have a degree,” he said. He is pursuing his MBA at the UK's York St John University. Now he's working on leading high-performance teams. Strategic thinking and planning come next, then his thesis. Before going into banking, Munir trained with the Kenya Air Force in 1983. He was in the force for a year before he quit to join Barclays Bank where he worked for eight years. He worked at the Digo Road, Moi Avenue and Nkurumah Road branches. “After Barclays, I joined Mombasa's oldest fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) company, which was then my client at the bank." He worked there for 18 years. "It was a family business and the older generation had passed on. The young blood came in and I felt that there was no appreciation and respect. I quit.” He looked for investors to open a milling company in Mombasa. “This place was a bush, complete with monitor lizards and snakes. We cleared it and set up a $150 million (Sh15 billion) investment." At first, the company had only three employees. “We assembled a very committed team," the CEO said. They started by putting up a 750-tonne mill and "everyone thought we were crazy, he said. From just three members, the company has expanded to 520 staff, including millers, drivers, accountants, a sales team and support staff. He says the team is a combination of young, energetic people and an older, experienced generation with a passion for the new venture. “Within 36 months, we have grown from milling 750 tons to 2,250 tons of wheat and 400 tons of maize per day. That tells you the level of our staff members' commitment," Munir said. He aspires to grow Grain Industries Limited into a leading African fast-moving consumer goods company. “We rely a lot on automation. Our mills can be operated from anywhere in the world as long as you have access permission. Our sales team operates from mobile devices,” Munir said. In December 2017, barely four months after they opened their doors, Grain Industries Limited was voted the Best New Business during the Mombasa Business Awards. The firm was honoured by the Kenya National Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Coast branch. In 2018, the company won the Best Customer Focus Award and was Second Runner-up as the Best Employer during the Mombasa Business Awards. Last year, they earned the Best Growth Strategy Award. Munir said he wants the company to meet international standards. “I’m actually very media-shy. I really do not like to speak to the press, but I’m happy when my company’s brand is visible,” he said. Grain Industries Limited, he said, is the first Kenyan mill to be FSSC 22000 certified (Food Safety Management Systems Certified). The evaluation process is very stringent. He said he has yet to hear of another mill with that certification. Munir now aims to get certified for International Standards for Occupational Health and Safety Management (ISO 45001) and Environmental Management System (ISO 14001). To ensure professionalism at his company, each and every staff member must go through induction, first with the head of department and lastly with the CEO. Because people come from different backgrounds, all new staff members must be aligned to the company’s mission and vision. Apart from manufacturing home-based products, Grain Industries Limited also manufactures products from other companies. The Asli Bakers’ wheat flour is manufactured for bakeries and confectionery companies, the Maza Biscuit Flour is manufactured for biscuit making companies and GIL Noodle Flour is for noodle-making companies such as Indomie. “We have a policy for our corporate clients. We ask them what they want to achieve, what are the key specifications and we make products that match their requirements,” Munir said. The company engages in a number of Corporate Social Responsibility activities countrywide. Munir's elder son studied Logistics overseas. A daughter studied Gas and Petroleum Engineering. His third born, a daughter, is pursuing Land Surveying and a fourth wants to pursue Procurement. Munir has an adopted nephew who is in Std 8. His mother, Munir's sister, died in a road accident. (Edited by V. Graham)