The Kisumu city management has demolished Neno Evangelism Church and an extension of Mamba hotel which are located on the road reserve. This is part of the ongoing pursuit by the county government to reclaim the grabbed public land. Church members on Thursday managed to salvage their property from the premise. At some point, police were forced to lobby teargas canister to disperse rowdy group from looting alcohol from the extension of Mamba lounge-demolished. Acting city manager Abala Wanga said the demolition targets to create space for the ongoing projects including beautification of the city. Wanga said owners of the structures along the Ngumi road were on October 26 given notice to vacate ahead of the demolition. “You cannot build a bar on road reserve. We must all respect the rule on the law,” he said. He said illegal structures along the road reserve or public lands meant for developments will be demolished. The county also reclaimed a public land which had been grabbed by a public developer. Last week on Friday, structures at Patel flats were razed down. More illegal structures at Kibuye open-air market were also demolished to pave way for the upgrade of the facility. He further cautioned those who have grabbed the county's property to surrender them before forcible repossession. These include parking lots, playing grounds, recreational parks and city houses. Wanga said they have embarked on a rigorous process of repossessing all the county property. He said they are going to start first with influential persons who have grabbed public property in the city. Those who have grabbed public land and built houses on them will not be spared. “We have compiled the list of grabbed property, with repossession in progress,” Wanga said. The city manager warned those who have erected permanent or make-shift structures in spaces marked for demolition to vacate immediately. Wanga has also barred town service vehicles from accessing Kisumu CBD. Wanga said vehicles are required to end their trip at Kisumu Boys roundabout. He also blocked trucks from entering the City’s CBD. They have been directed to use the Kachok bypass and join Busia road at the Golf Club roundabout. The directive, Wanga said, takes effect on Monday. Vehicles from Siaya-Kisumu and Bondo-Kisumu routes have also been blocked from entering CBD and are required to turn at Patel flats roundabout. He said they want to make Kisumu clean and restore order. Currently, Wanga said, they are constructing a modern Nyamasaria Satellite Bus park at Sh99.8 million. The new bus park will have parking bays, matatu Sacco offices, passenger lounges, waste management systems, modern restaurants, water hydrants, and disaster management systems. Upon completion, PSVs plying Nairobi-Kisumu, Mombasa-Kisumu, Kisii-Kisumu, Migori to Kisumu and Homa Bay to Kisumu will not be allowed in the city’s CBD.