@ppcheti State agencies and community organisations in Lamu have formed a team to tackle a spike in defilement and gender violence cases. The Lamu Gender Sector Technical Working Group was launched on the island on Wednesday. Muslims for Human Rights, global charity World Vision, the office of the Lamu county commissioner, probation and Lamu Gender executive's offices are represented. Muhuri field officer for Lamu Ummulkheir Ahmed said the move is timely as gender violence in the region has been worsened by the Covid-19 situation. The team will provide an easy platform for residents to report cases of gender violence and receive prompt action. It will also formulate policy to guide gender issues in the county to enable victims get justice. “This is long overdue considering we have been agitating for such a platform through community dialogue forums that we’ve conducted in Hindi, Hongwe and Faza ward,” Ahmed said. “We’ve also trained locals to enable them to handle related cases. I believe with the newly formed group, GBV reporting will be much easier.” County director for Gender Peter Ng’ang’a said many cases of gender violence in Lamu have been difficult to deal with due to kangaroo settlements. He said many cases of gender violence have gone unreported as people prefer to settle at the community or family level. He said the trend makes it impossible to break the vicious cycle. Ng’ang’a said the fact that Lamu doesn’t have a rescue centre for victims of gender violence makes it impossible to assemble and rehabilitate them. “For the longest time, Lamu has been lacking a County Gender Sector Working Group. This has caused a lot of challenges in addressing gender-related issues in the county,” Ng’ang’a said. The lack of rescue centres for victims of gender violence is still a challenge, he said. “I will therefore follow up on this so that it’s included in the supplementary budget by March 2021 so that a rescue centre can be realised in Lamu,” Ng’ang’a said.  (edited by o. owino)