Not long ago, there was an article that reminded the Church in Kenya to remain apolitical and instead seek a true revival for reform. The article highlighted the role of the Church in positively impacting on society. Integrity and morality are twin roles for any sincere Church that understands the significance of its existence. As a Seventh Day Adventist member with a regular and good standing, my attention has been drawn to the stories in the media about a pastor who has been sued for having an affair with an elder's wife. Although this matter is in court, it draws attention to the general declining morality and integrity in those overseeing the flock and the image of the Church. It pains members to continue reading and watching negative stories about clerics whose actions subject the members and the Church to public ridicule. For instance, there have been complaints of misappropriation of Church funds. Corruption, tribalism and incompetent recruitment of staff have been linked to the collapse of the once powerful and excellently performing schools such as Kamagambo, Nyanchwa, Segero, Kabokyek, Karura and Chebwai to name but few. Before their collapse, these schools produced admirable scholars who currently head lucrative organisations in the private and public sector. It must be disheartening to see their former schools fall to irredeemable state due to the aforementioned reasons. On morality, the Church has been at the forefront in ensuring a morally upright society. However, it is shocking to note that immorality has gradually penetrated all levels of the Church. Luckily, majority of the members who are disgusted with the inability of the leadership to deal with these vices uphold the values and principles of the Church. Unlike in the past, their main challenge is to get a forum to engage the leaders on the declining morality and integrity. Previously a rightly constituted business meeting could allow members to bring their leaders to account on such issues, but nowadays there is a general believe amongst members that leaders have either build an empire with walls of protection from accountability similar to the Sanhedrin Council in Biblical times or have intentionally refused to listen to the flock or the voice of God. These cases should be the turning point for the SDA Church leadership in Kenya For the wrath of God to spare the SDA Church in Kenya, a true repentance and revival starting from the top must be done. Samson Nyasimi is a communication and public relations professional and also an elder in the Seventh-Day Adventist Church