Residents affected by the Mwache Dam project in Fulugani area in Kinango, Kwale county, are up in arms over the peanuts they are being offered as compensation. Over 1,000 families in 25 villages say they are offered about Sh300,000 per acre and Sh10 per cassava plant. This is not the current market rate, they say. They want Sh5 million per acre, at least Sh100 per cassava plant and Sh1,000 per coconut tree. They got notices on December 14 to either accept the compensation offer or go to court. They are required to vacate the area by end of January. The construction of the Sh20 billion Mwache Dam is set to begin in March next year. The project, which is co-funded by the World Bank and the government, will harness the flood flows from the Mwache River basin in Kinango subcounty and help tackle persistent water shortages in the region. The dam is expected to boost water supply in Kwale and Mombasa counties. When complete, the dam will cover 2,600 hectares under irrigation in Kwale county,  according to the Coast Development Authority managing director Mohamed Keinan. The locals, however, have faulted the authorities on the compensation. “They have been using intimidation tactics and threats to get us out of here. Some of us signed the papers half-heartedly because they offered us no choice,” said Mwambire Haranga, one of the affected residents. They were assigned numbers for easy identification. Haranga said at first government officials wanted them to sign the acceptance papers without informing them the amount they would get. “However, when we were called for the awarding, we realised they were giving us peanuts. I was not satisfied with the amount but I still signed the papers because I felt I had no choice,” he said. Haranga who lives with his wife, eight children, one daughter-in-law and two grandchildren said moving with the whole family to another place would require time and money. The victims said they accepted the project after promises of good compensation and jobs. Haranga said government officials told them the compensation was calculated at the current prices of land. However, according to Haranga, a 100m by 80m piece of land in Kasemeni ward, where their village is, goes for Sh300,000 currently. They were told if they have any issues with the prices offered, they are free to go to court, Haranga said. But there is a catch. If anyone goes to court, when the others who accept the prices are moved out, those who went to court will also be moved out as the court process continues. “They said we cannot block the progress of the project. Furthermore, we are poor. We cannot afford a court battle with the government. And they know it,” said Haranga. Juma Ndaro, another affected resident, said the secrecy with which the compensation amount was being held raised questions. “They told us to prepare ourselves to move out before the project commences. But how could we prepare ourselves when we didn’t know what amount we were working with as compensation?” Ndaro posed. Uchi Chikoza Mweru said she has not had a good night’s sleep since she realised they were being fleeced. “I blame our political leaders. They have been quiet about this yet they are the ones who should be defending our rights,” she said. Kwale Woman Representative Zulekha Hassan called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene and ensure the victims are properly compensated. “He is the only one who will help us now. Our governor, area MP and MCA have done nothing to help these people,” Hassan said. She said in July, she sought a statement from Water CS Sicily Kariuki but the CS said the matter should be handled by the National Land Commission. “I went back to Parliament and sought answers about the compensation from the NLC. But it is now three months and the commission has not responded,” Hassan said. The NLC on Friday said they will issue a proper statement this week. Edited by Henry Makori