Tourism CS Najib Balala has said bush fires that destroyed hundreds of thousands of acres in the Tsavo ecosystem was a result of community negligence and climate change. Balala, however, said there have been rains within the ecosystem, and the main cause was draught, negligence from the neighbouring ranches and conservatives in terms of the fire that spread to other areas Speaking to the Star at Amboseli National Park during the launch of Amboseli Ecosystem Management Plan and Amboseli National Park Management Plan he said Tsavo has rained and the burnt grass has regenerated. Herdsmen, honey harvesters and charcoal dealers had been blamed and a probe into the cause of the fires launched with both Tsavos and Chyulu Hills affected. Tsavo ecosystem which covers more than five million acres is the largest protected complex in Kenya with more than four per cent of the country's landmass and consists of Tsavo East, Tsavo West, Chyulu Hills and South Kitui reserve. Balala who was impressed to see the regeneration of vegetation in Tsavo urged the county leadership to stop saying running the park is too expensive for the county and handing over the expansive twin park is a threat to the conservancy. The Taita Taveta County government has been pushing the National government to have a share of resources from Tourism and have Tsavo National Park converted to a game reserve. The CS  said the cost of running Kenya Wildlife Service is Sh8 billion while the revenue collected is Sh4 billion meaning the extra Sh4 billion comes from the Treasury. According to Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja, his community does not receive benefits from wildlife despite the two parks occupying 62 per cent of the total county landmass. The governor wants the county government to be allowed to start collecting revenue from the parks. Balala said there are inter-governmental relations that are dealing with the matter. "The inter-governmental relations has pushed and requested the county to withdraw the case and they have withdrawn the case so that we can engage in dialogue," Balala said. However, there should be an amicable relationship between national and county governments. Balala said there is a need to rethink how the two levels of government can work together and make counties to be part and parcel of the national park saying the classic example is Amboseli National park. He said at Amboseli National Park, the county government of Kajiado is part of key programmes that are being developed and will be replicated in other parks. In recent months, a spate of bushfires  has hit Kenya’s largest national parks  Edited by Kiilu Damaris.