Tusker goalkeeper Robert Mboya is likely to be available for selection in their next league match after resuming training. The Harambee Stars trialist was stretched off and immediately rushed to the Aga Khan Hospital after colliding with his teammate during their league match against Vihiga United at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Mboya who prior to that match had not played in the current season bore the brunt of the first-half collision and was replaced by Rwandese custodian Emery Mvuyekure. His superb saves saw Tusker hold a 1-0 scoreline to the final whistle to register their third win of the season. Tusker chairman Daniel Aduda confirmed that Mboya took part in light training sessions on Tuesday last week and was hopeful that the towering gloveman will be fully fit before they take on their next opponent on January 2. "He was concussed while trying to save a goal-bound move in our box. He was rushed to the hospital, treated and discharged on the same day. He attended the team's last training session last week Tuesday and we hope he will recover fully before the next match," he said. Aduda's sentiments were echoed by the experienced club doctor Wycliffe Makanga who said Mboya had recovered ahead of schedule. Meanwhile, the club head coach Robert Matano highlighted the significance of veteran midfielder Humphrey Mieno in their chase for their 12th league title. Despite starting from the bench in the past rounds, Mieno has proved that class is permanent and Matano believes it is just a matter of time before he makes his way back to the starting team. He said the former Stars midfielder who was loaned to Oman's Al Lttihad in January has shown traits of influencing the team to get positive results from the playing time given this season. "He is an experienced player whom we are happy to have in the team going forward after missing the past season. We have been using him as an impact player since he was not ready and his confidence is slowly building again. He can change the game anytime and influences the team to get positive results," said the league winning coach.