More cracks have appeared at the foot of Manga escarpment in Kisii, further pushing more people out of their homes. More than 600 people are now in makeshift camps at Nyabworoba Primary and Secondary schools. Heavy rains have continued to pound the region, elongating the gaping huge crack further down into the ridges. County geologist Cleophas Manyara says underground water seepage from Okaria Lake may be to blame for the geological phenomenon. The cracks now cover more than five kilometres from the epicenter. And at Marani, villagers along Mbanda River were by Friday morning counting losses after some of their animals were washed away by heavy rains. At least three cows were swept downstream. In Manga, an additional team of geologists from Nairobi arrived and is said to be still studying the crack. The team is expected to give verdict if it is safe for those living at the base of Manga, the epicenter of seismic shift, to continue with their lives or be moved. The geologists have since toured Nyabworoba and Nyabotenene, the worst hit of the regions. At least 300 households live in the soggy slopes. Fifty eight households have been living at Nyabworoba Primary and Secondary schools after they were ordered out by the government three months ago. "With the crack opening up, more farms further down the ridges, more people may be ordered out," said area Ward Rep Paul Angwenyi. "The area is completely devastated following the onset of new rains. The residents are living in a state of capture, not knowing what to do next," he told the Star on the phone. On Thursday night, some residents said they were jolted from their sleep as  houses developed new cracks. "We have experienced some problems with the rains before but this new development is the worst in our living memory," said Omboga Ototo, a resident. More people abandoned their sinking houses for Nyabworoba Primary School where others are camping for months. The total number of those displaced is 600. "The effects are massive and the people are apprehensive. They are in dilemma what to do next as their houses collapse in turns," said Angwenyi. County Ececutive for Administration Edna Kangwana said more officers will be dispatched to the affected areas to coordinate emergency help. She said a multi-agency meeting will be held to determine the extent of devastation in the areas largely affected by rains. "We are yet to get full information of the extent of how many people are affected, we hope to get full report when disaster officers scour through the area to get proper information," she told the Star. Meanwhile, those living in soggy lowlands have been advised move to safer grounds. "We have scrambled our team to reach out to all those affected. Meanwhile, we urge those living in delicate muddy areas to move to safer grounds," Edna said. More reports show that more people have had leave to safer grounds. Ward Rep Angwenyi said most of the affected are the elderly, many of them too weak to walk far. They still lack options where they can take their cows before they move out. "It is a new tricky situation altogether," said Angwenyi. He  said quick help from the national government is needed before the situation gets out of hand. The number of those affected has kept soaring since a fresh bout of storm set in on Sunday this week.  "The additional ones trooping in adds a new boil to a situation that is already too fragile," added Angwenyi. Further down in Marani, more villagers are counting losses. Their cows and crops were washed away after River Mbanda broke its banks. At least three households lost livestock as heavy rains descended on the villages creating panic.At least four cows were said to had been washed off by waters from the swollen river. Meanwhile, more people reported losses as rains continued pouring in torrents. At Bendera area in Kenyenya, water is already seeping into people houses. Similar incidents were reported at Nyabisase area in South Mugirango, where more than 500 people have since moved out of their houses. They are camping at Nyasasa Primary and Secondary schools. In Bomachoge Borabu, health officials have ordered the closure of Rianyanchebera Primary School after its classrooms flooded. The school's latrines also sunk following the heavy rains. Pupils who turned up on Wednesday for classes were forced back to their homes. The school offices were also flooded and books were seen floating in the waters when disaster officers from the county visited the area on Thursday morning. The institution is located at a swampy area prone to seepages, disaster director Nicodemus Orito told the Star.