Proof of how low Kenya has sunk in the International Cricket Council pecking order will be on show when the country host the inaugural Africa Twenty20 Cup from March 22 to 27. The continental tournament will feature smaller African teams that were once considered minnows including Uganda, Nigeria, Ghana, Malawi, Botswana, Mozambique and Cameroon are among others. It will be first time Kenya will be playing a number of teams in a tourney the organiser, Africa Cricket Association (ACA), said is aimed at developing the game in the continent and exposing the players to the world. Former national team bowler Alfred ‘Boi’ Njuguna is not amused with the situation Kenya have found themselves in, saying Cricket Kenya had only themselves to blame as the team deserve to be there. “Promotion and relegation is the simplest way to separate and place teams in their rightful categories. To be sincere, we have earned the position that we have found ourselves in and that is exactly where we belong,” Njuguna said. The African Cricket Association tournament will be played in two groups with Group ‘A’ featuring Uganda, Nigeria, Ghana, Malawi and Group ‘B’ comprising of host Kenya, Botswana, Mozambique and Cameroon. Kenya will open their campaign against Botswana on Day One before taking on Cameroon on the next day and winding up their group stage matches on February 25th against Mozambique. The country’s top cricketers have continued to perform poorly in international stages, a situation that has seen them miss out on a number of top fixtures. In the last four years, Kenya has dropped from Division One, where they used to enjoy playing top teams including the Test nations, to Division Three of ICC. In the past, Kenya enjoyed playing the likes of India, South Africa, Bangladesh and Pakistan among other teams in what was regarded top fixtures. With a drop in form, Kenya started to play the likes of Ireland, Scotland and Netherlands but within a short time, they were left fighting for their lives against the likes of Hong Kong, Namibia, Nepal, and United Arab Emirates after poor show. Late last year, Kenya finished second from the bottom of the ICC Cricket World Cup Challenge League Group B in Oman thus worsening their chances of returning to top flight cricket. By dropping down to Division 3, Kenya also lost the ODI status that was accorded to the country in 1997 after some good show in mid-90’s that included beating West Indies in the 1996 World Cup. 