Relegated Kisii RFC hopes to make a quick return to the KRU Championship. Kisii were relegated on Saturday after losing 16-3 to United States International University’s Martials at Kisii School. “We go back to the drawing board and press the re-set button. We are not giving up. In the next two games against Masinde Murilo University of Science and Technology (MMUST) and Eldoret RFC, we are going for wins. We want to finish on a high,” said Kisii RFC coach Eric Bosire. He attributed the club’s relegation to financial challenges which saw them fail to honour three away matches. He added that the financial constraints also saw players fail to train consistently. Patron Eliud Mogere promised not to abandon the club following their relegation. “What has happened has happened, you tried your best in the circumstances,” said Mogere. USIU coach Tom Lagat wished Kisii well in the Nationwide League. “Kisii gave us a good game. Playing against a relegation-threatened side wasn't easy. It has been a rough season for them playing without a sponsor. I wish the team the best as they seek to make a comeback,” said Lagat. Lagat was confident that his team will finish fourth and clinch a home quarter-final clash in the playoff. “We have been struggling to return to Kenya Cup. Last season we lost in the semis but this season, we hope to go all the way,” said Lagat. He was confident that he will have several first-team players who missed the Kisii tie in his last two games. Leaders Starthmore Leos and Masinde Murilo University of Science and Technology (MMUST) confirmed their home semifinals after finishing number one and two respectively. Strathmore thrashed Catholic Monks 33-15 at the Catholic University of East Africa while MMUST had a narrow 5-0 win over relegation-threatened Eldoret RFC. At Mombasa Sports Club, South Coast Pirates completed a double on local rivals Mombasa RFC winning 29-13 in the Pwani derby. Egerton Wasps enhanced their chances of a playoff place after beating University of Eldoret’s Trojans 14-11 in a closely contested game at the University of Eldoret grounds. Northern Suburbs also increased their chances of a playoff berth on their debut season after beating three-time Kenya Cup champions Mean Machine 18-10.