Dairy farmers in Nyandarua have been urged to ensure they produce milk without contaminants like aflatoxins and antibiotics if they are to benefit from their sweat. Ol Kalou Dairy Ltd chairman Isaac Muchiri on Friday said some farmers’ production methods and unscrupulousness affect the quality of milk they deliver. “All farmers in the country have a role to play to ensure what we take to the market meet world standards,” he said Muchiri spoke at Ol Kalou Stadium during the Nyandarua Agritec Expo, an initiative of the Kenya National Chambers of Commerce and the county. He said that some farmers treat their animals for various ailments but do not dispose of their milk as advised by the veterinarians. They mix it with the milk from the healthy cows and deliver to the dairies. This makes milk laced with antibiotics to find its way into the market, he said Muchiri said some farmers also do not prepare and keep their animal feeds in the right environment, exposing it to aflatoxins which contaminate the milk. The product is then consumed at homes and delivered to the dairies. Another challenge, he said, is milk hawking where corrupt dealers add water or use harmful preservatives to make it last longer. “Some of the diseases troubling us are contributed by us, the farmers,” he said He said persistent farmer education has ensured Ol Kalou Dairies produces quality milk, making its Sweeta brand gain wide acceptance across the country. For farmers to have bargaining power, he said, they must always ensure quality. Muchiri said the recent directive by the Kenya Dairy Board that the cooperatives should not deduct more than Sh2 from the farmers will affect their operations. He said while the sector is ready to fulfil the president’s directive that farmers get Sh33 for every litre of milk delivered, operational costs cannot be avoided. Ol Kalou Dairy, he said, receives milk from many areas of Ol Kalou, Ol Joro Orok and Kipipiri, where transport costs among others must be factored. Road network in Nyandarua is pathetic and causes breakdowns of vehicles and donkey carts used to ferry milk from farmers to the facility, hence increasing cost. To mitigate this, he said, the government needs to set up milk coolers in every village. This way the farmers will personally deliver their milk hence do away with transport cost, he said.