President Uhuru Kenyatta will not support Deputy President William Ruto in the 2022 General Election, Kirinyaga Governor Ann Waiguru has said. She said the President has revealed to his close confidants that he will renege on the promise he made to Ruto during the last election campaigns because the DP decided to fight him. Uhuru had promised to support Ruto to succeed him for two terms. Their relationship, however, began to wane soon after the 2017 election, with the President's allies accusing the DP of beginning early election campaigns in efforts to render Uhuru a lame duck. On Thursday, Waiguru hinted that Uhuru could back ODM leader Raila Odinga who has shown goodwill through his handshake with the President. She spoke at Maya Gardens Hotel in Sagana town during a BBI grassroots forum, which was attended by residents and stakeholders from different sectors. Also present was Deputy Governor Peter Ndambiri. She said Mt Kenya residents should not support a person with no agenda for them, adding that Uhuru brought in the Building Bridges Initiative to protect the interest of the region and ensure its people occupy senior positions in the next administration. Using Kikuyu parables, Waiguru said even though the two partners (UhuRuto) were genuinely in love initially and even bore some political children, their marriage was no longer manageable. She questioned how a spouse who kept hurling insults at his partner and disobeying and talking harshly against him could be tolerated. "After Uhuru and William Ruto fell in love and formed Jubilee that led to the formation of the coalition government, everything was healthy until the latter started being mischievous and allowing 'her' children to become rude to their dad. This has forced the head of state to look for another partner," she said. Waiguru said no man could stand an abusive wife, hence Uhuru’s newfound love with Raila. "When a wife keeps maligning her husband in all market places and let her children insult their father with impunity, then such a relationship can no longer be called a marriage, " she told the gathering. Four Kirinyaga legislators and most MCAs boycotted the meeting. The lawmakers were George Kariuki (Ndia), John Wambugu (Kirinyaga Central), Gichimu Githinji (Gichugu), Kabinga Wachira (Mwea), Women Representative Wangui Ngirici and Senator Charles Kibiru. They claimed they were not involved in the planning of the meeting and came to know about its venue the day it was held. Ngirici accused Waiguru of keeping them in the dark and acting alone with an ulterior motive, saying they received text messages a day before the event. Wangui said the venue was also changed from Kutus town to a privately owned hotel in Sagana, in what the leaders interpreted as locking them out. Waiguru said the views collected from residents will be presented in Kinoru stadium in Meru during the Mt Kenya BBI rally on Saturday. She clarified, however, that the Kirinyaga meeting was for players from different sectors, and not for the elected leaders as claimed by the no-shows. (Edited by F'Orieny)