Kenya Power has  disconnected several schools in West Pokot due to huge electricity debts. County branch business manager Milimo Amusavi said schools owed the company Sh2.7 million which must be fully paid before re-connection. Speaking in Kapenguria during the County Development Implementation Coordinating Committee  chaired by county commissioner Apollo Okello, the manager said schools have proved difficult settling their debts. "We have on several occasions requested schools affected to settle their bills but it has become difficult. Currently the debt stands at Sh2.7 million and we wonder whether primary schools have any allocation for the same," he said. Amusavi said some schools had been reported to be re-connecting power illegally, pointing out it was a criminal offence which attracts a fine of Sh5 million or 10 years imprisonment or both. Okello ordered the county director of education to liaise with the company, saying the government allocates funds for payment of various utilities including power and wondered why schools don’t honour their bills. "We know that the national government allocates money to schools. There is vote head for utilities and school heads that have diverted money meant for electricity should be answerable. The director should get names of schools who have defaulted," Okello said. The commissioner said the disconnection should not be allowed to continue as it will affect the digital learning programme rolled out by the government in all primary schools. Amusavi said 234 public schools are connected with electricity while the remaining have solar power. He said the last mile connectivity project will run in phases. Under phase one which is complete, 112 schemes were covered targeting 3,000 customers and 320 are already connected. He said getting relevant documents from customers had proved difficult as they are not willing to provide them, slowng down the programme. "There are documents which are supposed to be produced to KPLC before any connection such as a KRA pin, national identity card, wiring completion certificate among others which the customers are reluctant or not willing to give out," Amusavi said.