The county assembly and the executive of Busia are trading accusations over who is to blame for the county’s unpreparedness in disaster response. On Thursday, disaster management chief officer Ezekiel Okwach told the assembly to take calamity management matters seriously for Busia to counter catastrophes when they strike. Okwach said MCAs have frustrated his department’s efforts to adequately prepare for disasters following the shooting down of the department’s supplementary budget for 2019-20. The department is under Governor Sospeter Ojaamong’s office. “With the imminent invasion of locusts in the county, the department has no penny in its emergency kitty; if it were not for the Ministry of Devolution’s intervention when floods wreaked havoc in Teso and Bunyala regions the situation would have been different,” Okwach said. He said every year, Busia experiences floods and that the department has to seek support from the Devolution ministry. Okwach spoke two days after Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi accused the county assembly of ignoring the disaster preparedness budget. Mulomi who spoke to journalists in Busia town in reference to the current desert locust invasion said in case the insects strike in Busia, the county may be caught unprepared. “You can imagine we are the most vulnerable part of this country and we are the least prepared for these pests,” Mulomi said. “I just wanted to bring to your attention honourable Members of the County Assembly that this is something that can get us all off the track in terms of our economic development, in particular, our food security.” Last year on November 13 when the county assembly passed the supplementary budget estimates for 2019-20, they shot down the disaster management department’s Sh70 million budget. The money was to be spent to purchase a fire engine for Malaba town at Sh55 million and an additional Sh10 million for completing construction works for the Disaster Management Centre in Amagoro in Teso North. The installation of lightening arrestors was to gallop the remaining Sh5 million. Part of the Sh70 million, however, was redirected to cater for the payment of health insurance for the executive, as showed in documents seen by the Star. County Assembly’s Budget and Appropriations Committee chairman Linus Asiba, when contacted, said the House and particularly his committee should not be blamed for the financial insufficiency at the disaster management department. He said the executive arm plays a crucial role in determining which departmental budget is prioritised over the other. “The budget originates from the executive,” he told the Star on phone on Saturday. “Let them propose a budget for disaster management and we shall pass as MCAs.” In an earlier interview last year in December, he said the Sh70 million budget for disaster preparedness was cancelled by the committee after Governor Ojaamong wrote to the committee requesting the budget to be reviewed. The county assembly received the letter on November 13. “When we passed the budget (supplementary), there are items the governor wanted to be given priority such as health insurance and the payment of Kenya Revenue Authority dues,” Asiba said. Asiba however, said in 2020-21r, his committee will consider allocating money for the acquisition of a fire engine for Malaba town. The town presently relies on a fire fighter owned by Malaba Uganda police. Among catastrophic occurrences that Busia grapples with include the perennial floods that sweep across parts of Teso North, South and Budalang’i. There are also incidents of lightning strikes as well as fire occurrences. Edited by R.Wamochie