Is the government preaching water and taking wine when it comes to austerity measures being taken to stop wastage on non core issues?  National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani has been concerned about wastage in government, including secret expenditure.  In the ongoing Building Bridges Initiative rallies, it is understood that the Office of the President is financing these rallies which have been hijacked by politicians who have turned them into a 2022 contest. It begs the question: Why would OP fund the rallies yet the BBI task force which has the mandate to collect views from Kenyans has a budget? A Principal Secretary grossly affected by the cabinet reshuffle is licking his wounds as he promises to bounce back in a big way . The PS who was at loggerheads with his Cabinet Secretary was thrown in the Siberian less lucrative docket , in his commiserations , he recently told his buddies he was moved to sort out pertinent matters in the new docket and would bounce back as the substantive CS in the previous ministry . Corridors understands that the PS is hard hit and rues missing out on the packed stellar calendar of events coming up in the year where he would have raked in good money and outshine his boss. A former MP from Narok county is in the eye of a storm, after it emerged that security agencies are narrowing down on him following reports that he has been inciting a certain clan within the county to rise up against its neighbours. The MP is said to have been holding secret night meetings with a certain outlawed gang within the county to plan attacks against the other clan. It is alleged that the politician has also been holding night meetings at his Narok home before arranging for retaliatory attacks. In the coming days, police are said to be tightening the noose around the neck of the politician who is likely to be arraigned over incitement charges. It is not clear what the politician intends to achieve through his incitement schemes despite the government's efforts to restore peace in the area. The tide seems to be quickly turning against a legislator from one of the Luo-Nyaza counties. Reason? Those in the know say there is a secret plot being developed to cut the man’s growing influence to size. A small bird that is aware of the developments whispered to Corridors that a second term MP from the same region who is unhappy with the growing influence in the wake of the Building Bridges Initiative rallies is burning midnight oil to ground the politician. The plan is to sponsor a series of negative propaganda in social media platforms of how he is using to the rallies to profile himself and not really the party’s position.