 City Hall officials, including executives, have been grilled by EACC as the commission opens investigations into unethical conduct in the county government. The probe is concurrent with another by the DCI on alleged unethical and corrupt appointment of officials. On Tuesday, county secretary Leboo Morintat, chief of staff Peter Mugo and executives Mohamed Dagane (Transport) and Charles Kerich (Lands) were grilled at the Integrity Centre, the headquarters of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. County Attorney Lydia Kwamboka, Villy Magero (records and archive management) and executives Allan Igambi (Finance) and Newton Munene (ICT) were to be grilled on Wednesday. Hitan Majevdia (Health), Veska Kagongo (Devolution) and George Omogi who was nominated to the trade docket are scheduled to appear on Thursday. On Friday, Larry Wambua (Environment ), Lucia Mulwa (Education) and Karen Nyamu ( agriculture nominee) will appear for grilling. Both Omogi and Nyamu were nominated to cabinet in changes announced by Governor Mike Sonko last week. They are yet to be vetted. The officials are required to provide the letter dated January 30, 2020, on the reorganisation of the Nairobi City County Government signed by Sonko. At the same time, the DCI has written to Morintat asking for documents on appointments of the liquor board. “The office is undertaking investigations over an alleged unethical and corrupt appointment of officials to various positions within the county where the office of the County Secretary played a key role,” reads a letter dated February 3, 2020. The letter was written by Nairobi DCI regional coordinator Bernard Nyakwaka. Nyakwaka asked for County Public Service Board minutes on the appointment of the Embakasi East ward administrator and minutes on the appointment of the Liqour Board. The DCI also wants the county secretary to provide copies of the county assembly attendance register for MCAs for the last six months. EACC has been investigating City Hall since last year.  The anti-graft agency is also investigating the county’s multi-billion pending bills and the procedure used to nominate disaster management chief officer Anne Mwenda as deputy governor. When he last appeared at the Integrity Centre on November 5, 2019, Sonko accused EACC of a political witch-hunt. He said the anti-graft agency was trying to remove him from office.  edited by peter obuya