  ICT integration in Kiambu has greatly contributed to the good performance posted by schools in the county in last year's KCSE exam, officials say. Twenty secondary schools have already been awarded e-Confident status after the successful integration of ICT in learning. The schools were earmarked for the African Digital Schools Initiative (ADSI) programme which was started in 2016 by global e-schools and communities initiative (GESCI). They are expected to be ambassadors of ICT integration as the programme seeks to cover the other more than 300 schools in the county. Country project manager for ADSI Kenya Esther Mwiyeria on Saturday said the 20 schools have fully been integrated in ICT and encouraged principals to persuade their colleagues to embrace the technology. “We could not have catered for all schools but those schools that have benefitted can be ambassadors of ICT to other neighbouring schools so that they can help the teachers to do their work effectively as old methods of lecturing are being faced out by technology,” Mwiyeria said. She was speaking at Maxland Hotel in Juja during a meeting with principals from the 20 schools. Teachers Service Commission director for Ruiru subcounty Eva Kogo said teachers should be equipped in ICT for better and effective teaching. “We will have a programme to make sure that the teachers are well trained to impact learning in our schools,” she said. Eva said teachers who have made efforts to make a difference and impact learning to help students perform better should be celebrated and awarded. She defended the commission's policy on transfers, saying it is not meant to punish teachers but to give better services in different stations. "It is not a loss especially if transferred within the county as it is to the benefit of the students and schools,” Kogo said. Thika West education director Ronald Mbogo said ICT integration has improved students' performance. “Students are now interested in learning through ICT which has improved performances and enrollment and the new curriculum is a step ahead in ensuring ICT integration in schools is the way forward,” Mbogo said. Mbogo said ICT has bridged the gap between the teacher and the learner. David Maina, Kiambu county deputy secretary-general for Parents Association said they have adopted the idea of ICT in schools and were sensitising parents to help their children use computers. Maina said schools, where ICT has been integrated, have students with open minds and improved understanding. “Students are loving it when being taught through computers and you can tell by the way they understand their learning,” Maina said.  edited by p. obuya