A firebrand female politician is causing ripples owing to her closeness with a party leader from her region. It is rumoured that not even in high-powered national functions that she is left behind. In fact, the politician hovers around the party leader and often shoves away elected leaders from getting closer to the party boss. Many are now wondering in what capacity she is imposing herself in the presence of the party leader despite not occupying any elective position. Is stern leadership proving to work for President Uhuru Kenyatta’s order in the fight against corruption? An MP from the Rift was overheard telling his colleagues to be extremely vigilant to ensure they have no problems at their constituencies’ NG-CDF. The shaken lawmaker was overheard telling his colleagues how he was given a stern warning on misuse of NG-CDF under his patronage. The man, who has been discrediting the Building Bridges Initiative and handshake, says he is worried as the person who warned him said to his face that he should prepare to pay back all that he has looted from the fund. Are Members of Parliament equally feeling the economic hard times just like other Kenyans? Well, a number of MPs sitting in various committees are pushing for retreats to cover some unspecified committee work. Yesterday, a member of a certain committee told the chair to organize a three-day soonest to have a second look of presentation of witnesses who were appearing before them. Later, a lawmaker sitting in the same Committee was heard telling his other colleague that the retreat should come as early as next Thursday or else ‘no one should bother us with meetings here’. Are MPs are worried that the next payday might be too far away and Parliament having just resumed sittings after a long break, which most spent in the constituencies? Amid the predictable pattern that anyone linked to Deputy President William Ruto’s tangatanga was a potential guest of the state, a number of associates are changing tact. To survive, one of the DP’s supporters has chosen to sing praises of President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga’s handshake. The second-term MP was overheard telling friends over lunch that he better be at peace and get projects for his constituents than be at loggerheads with the system. The man wants to spend the next two years ‘living the lie’ and would cross back to the DP camp when campaign time comes.