President Uhuru Kenyatta has said the ongoing BBI consultative forums are not meant to isolate anybody. Uhuru on Saturday said BBI's focus is to collectively unite all Kenyans irrespective of their political affiliations. “It aims at solving several challenges that make Kenyans fight after every five years of elections, we want going forward to bring Kenyans together and solve those challenges,” Uhuru said. He added, "If it is about allocation to counties,  we want equitable distribution and representation of citizens so that no Kenyan will feel left out". Uhuru said within BBI, if the government intends to carry out infrastructure development, it will be done across the country and not selectively. Uhuru was speaking at Kangeta, Igembe Central constituency where he commissioned the new KCC  cooling plant. He said the cooling plant in Kangeta that will store 100,000 litres of milk will help farmers put their milk. He said the plant will enable farmers to be paid on the spot when processors pick milk from the plant. “We will also in future build a processing plant for the new KCC so that farmers can be supplying milk to Meru, Marsabit and Isiolo so that the plant can also create employment,” Uhuru said. He said soon his government will open a potato plant at Buuri constituency for farmers to get value of their crops by enabling good prices. The head of State maintained that his desire is to see all Kenyans co-exist peacefully without fear. Uhuru said even with matters of politics, every  Kenyan has the right to stand for any political seat anywhere in the country. While referring to Njoro MP who hails from Meru but was elected MP in the Rift Valley and North Imenti MP Rahim Dawood who despite being Asian was elected North Imenti MP, Uhuru said that is a clear indication that Kenya is the best place to be. “That is the Kenya we want where people are not looked at by tribal or skin colour but what they can deliver,” he said. Uhuru sentiments were echoed by ODM leader Raila Odinga who wooed Ukambani to back the Building Bridges Initiative vouching for it as the way out of electoral violence in the country. He told residents who thronged Kitui that the BBI process is the cure to the bloody violence witnessed in the country every election cycle. In a charged meeting hosted by Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu, the ODM leader rallied the residents to back BBI for prosperity. Raila, who treated the audience to his new-found reggae rhythms,  said the initiative would herald a season of peace and tranquillity “where poll winners and losers greet one another after results are declared.” “That is the meaning of handshake and foundation of BBI. We are rooting for this so that we don’t have elections where people shed blood,” he said.