An article has been doing rounds on social media alleging that a 12-year-old pupil at Kakamega Primary school has been placed under psychiatric observation for allegedly causing the death of 14 of his colleagues at the school. Could it be true that the said pupil caused the stampede? The Star moved in, to fact-check the claims. Where did it start? How ‘Allahu akbar’ joke ended the lives of 14 pupils at Kakamega Primary, reads an article by Kenya Today. According to the article published on February 4, the pupil by the name Gershom Crisantus Musonye is being investigated for allegedly shouting ‘Allahu akbar’ causing the stampede. The article further claims that Musonye has been placed under psychiatric observation to determine his mental health before pressing charges against him. The article does not, however, quote any authority to back this claim. "Allahu akbar' is a phrase meaning ‘God is most great’, used by Muslims in prayers and as a general declaration of faith or thanksgiving. The Star’s fact-check desk deployed one of its reporters on the ground to verify this claim. According to Kakamega County Police Commander Bernard Muli, no pupil had been interrogated by the police over the incident. Muli told our reporter that investigations are still at a preliminary stage and there had not reached a level to take personal statements. “I can confirm that we have not placed any pupil under whatever observation for whatever reason, not unless there is another authority that confirmed the same to the writer,” Muli said. This statement is backed by the county DCI boss Peter Kimulwa who said no pupil had been questioned. Kimulwa said, as a matter of fact, it is not upon the police to place anyone under medication of whatever sort unless directed by the court. He said the incident had happened in a primary school meaning it is a matter relating to minors and as required their identity wouldn’t just be given to members of the public. The Star looked at the page of the publication and established it had published another article claiming that Baringo Senator Gideon Moi had attempted suicide. All these articles are nothing but fake because they have no evidence to back the articles. What happened? On February 3, 2020, it was reported that a stampede had happened at the Kakamega Primary School. The Education Ministry in its report said the stampede took place on the second and first floors of the five-story block, which has two staircases used by both teachers and the learners. Cabinet Secretary George Magoha promised to make public the outcome of the investigations by this week. The school has 51 classrooms against a population of 3,128 pupils in lower and upper classes and another 296 pupils in Early Childhood Development Education. While some media reports had indicated that the pupils were running away from one of the teachers who was chasing them, others claimed the pupils had seen some ghosts. Police are yet to release their report as to what caused the stampede. A post-mortem conducted on the bodies indicated that they died of suffocation. County pathologist Dickson Muchana said the deceased had problems of the lungs caused by the pile-up of pupils during the stampede. He said only one of the deceased had a dislocated right shoulder, presumably suffered as they struggled to free themselves. Deputy President William Ruto, who visited the school, confirmed that 14 pupils died, 46 were injured, 37 pupils were treated and discharged, two learners were still at the intensive Care Unit (ICU), three are in surgical wards and three others had been admitted at the general wards. On Saturday last week, a memorial service was held at the Bukhungu stadium with KNUT and KUPPET calling on the ministry of education to move swiftly with the investigations. Do you have any story that needs fact-checking? Reach us on factcheck@thestar.co.ke or factcheck@radioafricagroup.co.ke