Farmers and other residents have been told to move away from areas that have been sprayed to control locusts. Keith Cressman, the UN desert locust expert, said everyone should avoid the sprayed areas at least for one day to avoid any adverse health effects from chemicals. “First if they (farmers) see any spraying being done, either by ground or aircraft, they should move away from those areas. They should also move animals away from the area for at least a day so there are no ill effects,” he said in a statement. The government has denied that the chemicals used to spray locusts are harmful to human beings and the environment. Government spokesman Cyrus Oguna disputed the FAO claims, adding that thorough testing has been done to ascertain the chemicals' effectiveness to kill locusts without affecting residents. Oguna spoke on Thursday last week when he toured the affected areas of Masinga in Machakos County and Mbeere in Embu county. Cressman also advised farmers to dig trenches in their farms where they can bury the pests. “If you have hoppers coming in from outside you can dig trenches around your crops, and you can sweep those hoppers inside the trenches and bury them,” Cressman said. In Kenya, the desert locusts have been in December. At least 14 counties have been affected so far. They include Mandera, Wajir, Marsabit, Garissa, Baringo, Samburu, Isiolo, Meru, Laikipia, Embu, Tharaka Nithi, Kitui, Machakos and Makueni. He said the desert locust invasion represents a grave threat to food security and livelihoods in the Horn of Africa. “Right now Ethiopia, Kenya, and Somalia are the most affected countries but other countries are at risk. As swarms of the pest continue to migrate and devastate crops in its path, FAO is calling for urgent international support to fight the worsening upsurge,” he said. Cressman said the risk is very high and Uganda and South Sudan can receive swarms at any time. In the months ahead locus will move to Sudan and Ethiopia and Somalia maybe reinvaded from the current infestation in Kenya. “A lot of progress is being made. Countries have immediately mobilised their surveys and control teams both by ground and air. FAO is supplementing governments' efforts by upscaling aerial control operations in Kenya and Ethiopia," he said. (Edited by V.Graham) 