A man has told the court how his trip with his girlfriend to his brother’s home in Kawangware turned tragic after his sister-in-law burned them with cooking oil. She pretended to be preparing some chips but used the same oil to attack them. Alfred Oluoch told Kibera senior resident magistrate Renee Kitagwa that he called his brother, Kennedy Odengo, who lived in Kawangware and requested him to pay him a visit in Kibera so that they could settle some rent issues. Mary Mutamba is charged with grievously harming Alfred, an offence she allegedly committed on  April 1, 2018 at Kawangware -56 area in Dagoreti. She is also charged with assaulting Kennedy Odongo and Agness Keya. “I called my brother but he told me he didn't have bus fare. I told him I am with my younger brother and we will be coming in the evening to pay him a visit,” Odengo said. He then went to his brother’s house in Kawangware and but did not find his sister-in-law, now the accused. “I arrived at around 4pm and I never met my sister-in-law as she was not in the house. It was her sister from Thika who was there and my brother Kennedy was there watching TV. Mary’s sister was holding a baby,” he told the court. She said after a while, his sister-in-law arrived, greeted them and went and placed cooking oil on a gas cooker. “She came, lit the gas, put on salad oil and went out leaving it boiling," he said. She added more oil in the sufuria and my brother asked her what she wanted to cook. She said she wanted to cook some chips. He then asked her where the potatoes were and she said they were being prepared outside. He said that his brother asked her to give him the receipts of the Kibera house rent issues which she did and went outside again. He said that when she came back, she switched off the gas, took the boiling cooking oil and splashed it on them. She was arrested with the help of the neighbours. His husband, also the complainant in the case, also testified and said that his brother called him and asked him to help solve the rent arrears and when he visited him in Kawnagware, his wife splashed the hot salad on him and himself. 