The government has procured 1,400 litres of pesticides to kill immature locusts in a new tack against the pests, which are on a breeding spree. The pests have now invaded 17 counties, with Kitui being highly affected. Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya on Saturday assured residents of Mumoni subcounty, where the insects are breeding in large numbers, they will be fully contained. Munya said they will spray nymphs that will be hatched in the next 21-28 days. The minister said 1,400 liters of pesticide have been dispatched to Kitui to fight the nymphs, which are more dangerous as they devour crops day and night. Munya also noted that the spraying is still ongoing and the pesticide is effective and does not harm other living things. "The pesticide that we got from Japan is effective and not harmful to the environment," noted Munya. The CS also noted that the government is prepared for the fight against the looming invasion by the nymphs and has ordered for more pesticides from Japan. "We were faced by the challenge of pesticide shortage but we have some now and have also placed orders for more," stated Munya. In readiness for the nymph spray exercise, the government will train 500 National Youth Service recruits on ground spraying. "Starting Monday, the first lot of 250 youths will kick-start their training on motorised, hand and mobile spraying at Yatta training field," said Munya. The Cabinet Secretary also urged county government agricultural officers to identify areas where the migratory insects breed, for efficient spraying. Munya urged farmers not to worry as the government is doing enough to contain the menace, with Masinga airstrip, the center for coordination for lower Eastern region, equipped with the necessary material and a standby helicopter. Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu urged the national government to heighten the war on locusts invasion. “Following the heavy rains which have pounded for over three months now, we expect a bumper harvest and if not contained, the locusts will leave residents sourcing for relief foods,” stated Ngilu. Ngilu also said that Kitui county government will closely work with the national government in ensuring the hazard is completely contained. The governor also urged the national government to spray a pesticide that is friendly to the environment. “As Kitui, we depend on farming as the way of eradicating poverty,” she said. In addition, the county head urged residents to help agricultural officers by showing the areas where breeding of the insects occurred in order for them to be sprayed.