A business lobby says it will continue demanding a review of the Mombasa county finance guidelines, which it blames for the high cost of doing business. The Coast Business Coalition (CBC) on Thursday said the new rates introduced through the Finance Act, 2020, has inflated the cost of operations making it untenable. The contentious clauses facing criticism include transit fees, single business permit fees, hotel levy, land rates and parking fees. The team also questioned alleged harassment by county askaris and public health officials, among other officers. The coalition represents about 20 groups made up of business associations, civil society and residents’ organisations. It bemoaned the county government’s decision to increase levies, yet the local economy is still undergoing extreme slowdown. “The SGR has moved the clearing and forwarding businesses out of Mombasa county and has affected many suppliers. Restaurants are closing down. Hotels are closing down,” CBC chairperson Monika Solanki said. They faulted the application of the transit fee charged on goods ferried through the county. "For instance, Coca-Cola is making their goods in Kikambala in Kilifi county and when they are transporting to Kwale county passing through Mombasa, they are charged while they are using the national highway," Solanki said during a press briefing. "And there are many other goods being charged transit fee and the businesses are saying this is not tenable and they need it to be removed.". According to the lobby, the county government has refused to negotiate and instead cites the need for revenue generation. “We have met with the county but did not get any solutions. They just told us that whatever is in the law is done and there is nothing like negotiation. They said that they need the money and cannot negotiate with us.” Solanki said the coalition will not relent and will press for a meeting with Governor Hassan Joho. If that fails, they will not hesitate to pursue other means to compel the county to listen to their pleas. “We are still hoping that the governor will meet us so we can negotiate. But already there are three court cases ongoing and earlier this week the Mombasa county government was stopped from demanding increased property rates,” she said. “The Bar Owners Association have a court hearing on March 9. The Pubs, Entertainment and Restaurants Association of Kenya and hotelkeepers might go to court as well." They say the hotel and bed levies amount to double taxation as hoteliers already pay a catering levy to the Tourism Fund. The coalition wants business licences to be streamlined. “A single business entity like a hotel pays for around 17 different permits. Will we be running our businesses or running after permits?” Solanki asked.