The recent goal-scoring prowess depicted by strikers plying their trade in the Kenyan Premier League and abroad have left coach Francis Kimanzi hopeful of an easy win over Comoros on March 25. Stars will host the Islanders in a 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier match, seeking to breathe life into their dream of booking a ticket to the finals scheduled for Cameroon. Stars forwards were heavily criticized for putting the ball past the line once in the opening qualifier matches against Egypt and Togo despite the rich supply of ammunition from the play-makers. However, Kimanzi believes the script will be different going forward, thanks to the numbers posted by the more than half a dozen strikers angling to make it to the team. The former Mathare United tactician was full of praises for the quartet of Enoch Agwanda, Timothy Otieno, Enosh Ochieng and Elvis Rupia who are all strong candidates for the KP L’s ‘Golden Boot'. Kakamega Homeboyz's prodigy Peter Thiong'o also has eight goals. The age-less Agwanda has netted 12 goals—one ahead of Otieno who was part of the Stars' team which scooped bronze in the Cecafa Senior Challenge held last year. The duo of Rupia and Ochieng have eight goals against their names. Beyond the borders, Kimanzi who admitted to having a selection headache upfront weeks to the international break also noted the impressive performance by the trio of John Makwata, Jesse Were and Michael Olunga. Makwata joined Zesco United last month from AFC Leopards and prior to his departure, he had found the back of the net 13 times locally and has already two goals in the Zambian league in as many matches. “Every coach wishes to find himself in a selection conundrum and my case is no different ahead of the qualifier. We have our local strikers who have proved that they deserve a place in the team and our foreign-based ones are also doing well. This will help inject competition upfront and will give us options as well as aid us win our matches in a convincing way,” noted the former Tusker coach. While Kimanzi picked the senior hitmen from KPL and abroad, he challenged stakeholders to revamp the National Super League to churn out more players who will compete for places in the national team. “There is quality in the second tier but their progress is hampered by lack of finances. Players down there do not enjoy similar privileges like their colleagues in the top tier and foreigners. If stakeholders can join hands and improve the league finance wise, then we will be able to produce more players who will compete for the starting roles,” observed Kimanzi.