Only 10 per cent of women in slum areas are willing to ask their spouses to assist in household chores. For those who muster the courage to ask, their request is usually met with a firm refusal from their husbands especially when it comes to certain tasks. “Further, even when women did ask for men's assistance, they reported that 50 per cent of the time, men were not willing to help with tasks, such as washing/ironing clothes, cleaning the house/compounding and collecting fuel,” OXFAM Kenya revealed in a new report. Men are, however, willing to assist with babysitting and fetching water albeit not at all times. “Men were, however, reportedly more willing to help with tasks such as caring for children (35 per cent of the time) or water collection (24 per cent of the time),” the report adds. The report titled Gendered Patterns of Unpaid Care and Domestic Work in the Urban Informal Settlements of Nairobi, Kenya, is the culmination of a household care survey undertaken by OXFAM Kenya in Mathare, Kibera, Kawangware, Mukuru kwa Njenga and Korogocho slums in Nairobi. A total of 463 slum dwellers–328 women, 93 children and 42 men–were interviewed in the six-month study that investigated perceptions of unpaid care and domestic work. Whereas 83 per cent of the women believe that men should partake in household chores, 11 per cent believe that it is a shame for men to perform such tasks. “The majority (73 per cent) of women reported that they were satisfied with how UCDW was currently shared across the household, a view they mainly attributed to the fact that they saw UCDW as a woman's task." It adds, "Yet, an even greater majority of women (83 per cent) affirmed that men should do UCDW." Consequently, women spend an average of 11.1 hours on household chores compared to 2.9 hours for men. However, women with more autonomy or decision-making power in their homes spend less time on household chores as is the case for those with high educational levels. Additionally, single women spend fewer hours on domestic chores than their married counterparts. Responding to the findings, University of Nairobi lecturer Prof Tabitha Kiriti decried the negative impact of unpaid care and domestic work on women's access to the labour market. “Women's nurturing roles like carrying a baby and breastfeeding should not be used or become a barrier for her to participate in the labour market,” Prof Kiriti, who specialises in economics, said. During the release of the report at Hilton Hotel, Nairobi, the media was also asked to highlight more issues on UCDW and help bridge the gender inequality that results from household chores. Edited by R.Wamochie