High-flying Sofapaka travel to Mumias this weekend to face a wounded AFC Leopards in a match dubbed 'Cats Derby’ in the main highlight of the Kenya Premier League Sofapaka clawed defending champions Gor Mahia 3-1 in their last match and will be looking to serve Leopards with a similar dose in their bid to revive their hopes of a respectable finish. The match promises thrills as Leopards will be seeking to redeem themselves from a 1-0 loss in the hands of Tusker in their last match as well as maintain their unbeaten run at Mumias. Ingwe have been camping in Mumias from last Sunday awaiting Sofapaka. Prior to kick-off, the club is set to unveil their new bus. Leopards head coach Anthony Kimani has opened up on the plan to cage Sofapaka and register their tenth win of the season. Kimani, who took over from his former boss Andre Mbungo in December last year, said he is keen to safeguard the unblemished run at Mumias. Leopards may miss the services of Harambee Stars forward Vincent Oburu who has a knock “We lost our last match and it is important we bounce back to our winning ways. Sofapaka are tough opponent but we have been preparing for them throughout the week even though we may miss Oburu who has a slight knock. We also want to safeguard our good run at the venue,” said the former Ingwe skipper. This Saturday, newly re-appointed Bandari head coach Ken Odhiambo will hope to begin his second stint with the club with a win when they host Mathare United. Odhiambo reunited with the dockers on Tuesday after two years, picking the mantle from Twahir Muhiddin who resumed his technical director roles. KCB will be out to arrest their two-match winless run when they tackle Posta Rangers at the Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos. The bankers would have been on level points with league leaders Gor Mahia had they not lost twice to Kariobangi Sharks and Bandari. Rangers, on the other hand, will also be pursuing redemption after losing 2-1 to Chemelil Sugar. Western Stima will host Kariobangi Sharks at the Moi Stadium, Kisumu, seeking to end their five-match winless streak. Champions Gor Mahia play Zoo Kericho on Sunday at the Kericho Green Stadium seeking to open a six-point gap at the top. Gor drew Stima 1-1 in their last match and will be without their assistant skipper and centre half Joash Onyango who saw red in the match. Tusker host Wazito at the Ruaraka grounds, gunning to move on level points with Gor as they trail them by three points. Wazito will be hunting their fourth win of the season and their second successive after putting off Stima 2-1 in their last encounter. Kakamega Homeboyz play a revitalized Chemelil Sugar at the Bukhungu Stadium while Ulinzi Stars confront Kisumu All-Stars at the Afraha stadium. 