Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has challenged serving governors to keep off corruption deals. Kalonzo on Saturday said it is unfair for the governors to be demanding for an increase of the county allocation share from the current 35 per cent to 45 per cent yet the majority of them cannot account for what they have already received. The Wiper leader was speaking during the fourth BBI consultative forum in Kitui County. Kalonzo who is currently serving as a peace envoy to South Sudan said President Uhuru Kenyatta must be commended for his resolve on graft war. “Uhuru has taken out the sword on corruption and this is a clear indication that the war is inevitable,” Kalonzo said. “If you are in public service and you are touched by this sword, do not cry and blame the President. Let the corrupt carry their own cross as the president has always said.” Kalonzo further reiterated that to raise the bar on the graft war, the Senate must ensure that any governor who appears before its plenary they are sent packing as this will be setting good precedence against corruption. "We must be very clear on this, governors appearing before the senate plenary for trial on matters of corruption should not be spared, we must help the president on this corruption war,” he said. His sentiments come just a few days after former Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu was impeached. Waititu's efforts to stop the swearing-in of James Nyoro as the new governor flopped after the high court declined to grant him the orders. Nyoro who attended the rally said it was a relief for the residents of Kiambu as corruption had been done away with. "I am the last born among the governors but a firstborn child of the BBI. Moving forward I want to assure Kiambu residents that they will not regret," Nyoro said. Kalonzo, a former Vice President, stressed the need to ensure that BBI is used as a foundation to unite all Kenyans rather than divide. Kalonzo said the focus should be on how to make devolution work effectively and create more opportunities for the youth. He said one way the government can be creative in considering the youth is by declaring Mombasa Port as a free port which will open up more opportunities for the youth. “Let us stop the jokes and create more job opportunities for the youth. They have increased, and if we do not look at creative ways to absorb them, there will be a problem,” he said. He further said the current locust invasion must be declared a national disaster and serious mitigation measures be put in place. Kalonzo said if the relevant stakeholders do not move swiftly to contain the invasion, many families stare at starvation as the desert locusts are so destructive. “I want to appeal to my brother Peter Munya to declare this invasion a national disaster. If need be he should also declare short of funding and source for international help from bodies like IGAD who are ready and willing to help,” he said.