Former President Daniel Moi ran a meticulous yet secretive intelligence management system that cemented his hold onto power for the 24 years. Insiders of his administration said Moi maintained a provincial administration that updated him daily of the occurrences at the grassroots level using a special dedicated phone line that was exclusive for that purpose. The phone line was not known to anybody else in government, they said. Moi died last Tuesday at the Nairobi Hospital and will be buried next Wednesday at his home in Kabarak, Nakuru County. Joseph Kaguthi, Frankline Bett and Julius Sunkuli said divided his officers into two departments; governance and service delivery. Kaguthi served as the provincial commissioner for Nyanza, Bett as State House Comptroller and Sunkuli as Security Minister. They said Moi had a chain of command that was hierarchical with strict discipline, cascading from local village elders and administrators to sub-chiefs, chiefs, the DC and the PC. Sunkuli said Moi ensured information flowed to him unabated and did not rely on polished versions from agencies. To achieve this, the former head of state ensured State House comptroller maintained a hotline accessible to a select few in strategic places in the country and who would directly call the president for a report. "The hotline was readily available to the provincial administration which was more grassroots-oriented in generating raw information. Moi did not only rely on NSIS or special branch for information," Sunkuli said. The diverseness of the sources of intelligence was undoubtedly pivotal in helping Moi remain abreast of what was happening. "Every provincial commissioner and every minister of a certain level had that line. It was exclusively used to preserve the integrity of the information and also lock out the need to use post office or telegram," Bett said. The Bureti MP and Roads Minister said the phone had a unique ringtone distinct from the other phone to "alert you that it could be the president on the line." Kaguthi said that when incidences such as the latest tragedy that claimed the lives of schoolchildren in Kakamega, the nearest administrator would be tasked to dash to the scene immediately and glean sufficient information for onward transmission to the PC. "I would then find out where Mzee was and if he was alone, I would call him using the hotline and brief him about the incident and what we have and are doing about it," the former administrator said. Asked what sort of instruction would come through to him during his conversation with the president, Kaguthi said Moi was assertive in his rule and always wanted to be on top of things, avoiding unnecessary surprises. The information would also be managed in a manner that ensured it landed only on the right hands "as we had enemies both within the country and without." Sunkuli said managed those around him in a manner that showed no indifference but not certain that he would necessarily use their advice. edited by peter obuya