The manager of a farm linked to Deputy President William Ruto in Mata, Taveta subcounty, will on Friday know whether he will be charged for alleged illegal water connections. Arie Dampers has been asked to visit the Taveta police station where a meeting with the county’s water and sewerage company (Tavevo) shall be held. Dampers is in charge of the over 2,500-acre land once owned by former Taveta MP Basil Criticos. The South African was on Friday last week detained at Taveta police station and later released on bond after a search revealed illegal water connections at the farm. “He [Dampers] was released on a free police bond and was scheduled to meet with Tavevo on Tuesday. The meeting has however been pushed to Friday,” subcounty police boss Lawrence Marwa told the Star on the phone. Marwa said they have left the issue in the hands of county government to decide whether they shall prefer charges against the manager. He described the matter as a civil case that would be prosecuted on basis of county by-laws, noting that the water firm was at liberty to charge Dampers. But sources privy to the matter have revealed that top officials at the county’s water department have bowed to pressure to drop the case. “He will not be prosecuted because the case has attracted a lot of interest from senior government officials. That is why they have been reluctant to charge him in court, it is now water under the bridge,” a source at Tavevo said in confidence. Tavevo managing director David Ngumbao refused to comment on the matter. In an interview with the Star last week, Water and Sanitation executive Gasper Kabaka denied leading a team to investigate the DP’s farm. Kabaka also refused to give details on the disputed water supply, saying that he was unaware of the issue. Former Mata MCA Kimpampi Tiges accused Dampers of fencing off and diverting water supply at the main water pipeline that runs from Njoro springs to Kachero Village in Jipe. More than 350 families depend on the pipeline for water. "Normal water supply has been interfered with. This has affected supply in main public institutions like Mata Primary School, Mata Secondary School and Mata Dispensary,” he said.