Meru’s Black Panther failed to qualify for Chapa Dimba national finals for the third time after being knocked out by Tumaini School from Makueni. The team from Meru started chasing the game early when Tumaini’s Yassin Mohammed put his team in-front four minutes into the first half. The budding players from Makueni County were on form as they created chances that saw Kinama Moses and Yassin fail to beat black Panther’s goalkeeper.  The two, however, combined for Tumaini School’s second goal in the 17th minute when Moses picked out an unmarked Mohammed in the box. Mohammed, who had scored five goals in his previous match at the regional finals, secured the top scorer’s position after bagging a hat-trick in the 48th minute, to put the game out of Black Panther’s reach. Murithi Dennis scored a consolation goal for Black Panther with 15 minutes left on the clock. The team which had come from two goals down in their previous match could not replicate the fighting spirit as Tumaini School’s Kapirante Morris put the game to bed with a fourth goal. Tumaini School Evans Ogutu expressed happiness to qualify for the finals, saying: “I will prepare well for the finals and I believe the defending champions (Manyatta United) will be there. So I am planning to make sure my players will be up to task come June.” In  the ladies category, Isiolo Starlets triumphed against Chuka University to emerge Eastern Region champions. Substitute Rebeca Nkirote scored an equaliser with a stunning free-kick from the half way line after Wanjeri Susan had put Chuka university in front. Hilda Wanjiku scored a brace in quick succession in the second half to put Isiolo Starlets in-front. Wanjeri Susan dramatically scored her second while Isiolo Starlets were still celebrating their third goal to put the game within Chuka University’s reach, earning praises from her coach Stephen Ouma. “I believe the best team lost because we did not convert our chances and I believe if every player was as quick to react as Susan, we would have done better,” he said. Susan Wanjeri was also the regional’s top scorer. The Chapa Dimba nationals will be played in June in Mombasa.