Did ODM leader Raila Odinga decline a request by an MP to preside over the launch of market stalls in his constituency? This seems to be the case if what the handlers of the legislator were heard saying is anything to believe. The men, who were speaking to some traders who were wondering why they have not been allowed to occupy the stalls, said Raila declined to grace the occasion after he learnt that he was going to launch only eight stalls. The stalls were built two years ago and the MP had given firm instructions that no one should occupy them until Raila launches them. A governor from Western Kenya is having a rough time attending public functions in his county. Reason? Residents are using these events to put him on the spot over his development record. The county chief is heckled in almost every event and is sometimes forced to cut short his speeches. He was recently humiliated before his guests when he took to the podium to address mourners at a funeral ceremony. Mourners demanded that he first apologises for the bad state of roads in the county before he tells them anything. He heeded to the demands but our mole said the governor believes his rivals are paying crowds to embarrass him. A second-term MP from the former Nyanza Province has become the talk of the town after he failed to honour his pledge for a funeral. According to those in the know, the legislator had pledged Sh30,000 to support the funeral arrangement of a constituent who passed on a fortnight ago. The MP has been mum since then, despite personally visiting the bereaved family at their home. The phone number gave out to the family has been offline. The family buried their kin last weekend. Residents are now wondering why Mheshimiwa reneged on a pledge he voluntarily made to the poor family. A Parliamentary committee seems to have been infuriated by the conduct and demeanor of a Cabinet secretary. Some members of the committee were overheard discussing the CS, saying the official is arrogant and inhibits ‘a big man’s attitude’ whenever he appears before them to respond to issues touching on the Ministry. She does not directly respond to questions and instead takes the committee round in circles leading to adjournments. They said the official display of arrogance points to a person who seems to be enjoying protection of top government officials