Did a Moi family member unsuccessfully try to block Deputy President William Ruto from the former President's Kabarnet residence? Corridors of Power is informed that most family members rebuffed attempts to keep Ruto out. The DP is said to have landed at Kabarnet Gardens in his chopper after flying from Kakamega, where he had gone to condole with parents who lost their children in Monday's school stampede. It is said the DP's decision to fly directly to the residence was a smart move meant to outwit characters who were hellbent on keeping him out. Call it a game of wits. An MP from Nyanza, with vast business interests, is a regular visitor to a powerful Cabinet secretary's office. The MP, whom some people now see as a key adviser to the CS on matters investments, shows up at the office almost daily. He doesn't, however, observe the rules of etiquette, often overstaying his welcome at the expense of other visitors. And when he finally leaves, he does so reluctantly. Why he frequents the office is anyone's guess. Just who is this senior police officer said to have grabbed a children's playground in South C's Akiba estate? The officer deploys seven officers, including an inspector, daily to 'offer security' to the excavator crew and intimidate any resident who dares challenge the big man's project. The uniformed cops arrive in a private white car and spend the whole day at the site while criminals terrorise residents. Even after defiant residents last year stormed the site and refilled the excavation with soil, the powerful and greedy officer has come back with a vengeance determined to complete his project. Complaints to City Hall and Vigilance House have gone unheard.  Could the senior cop be more powerful than the Inspector General? It has been reported repeatedly that an auditor leading a notorious hub is causing problems for the office of the Auditor General. The auditor's massive errors have previously left the office with egg on its face but it would appear the man is yet to learn from his mistakes. Corridors understands that a disciplinary mechanism has been initiated to address an issue in which he is accused of pocketing some 'facilitation money' from a client from a county in northern Kenya to clear a recurrent audit query about the construction of a security wall around a level 5 hospital. The intrigue includes the irregular awarding of the tender to a firm associated with the county’s deputy governor. The query dragged on since 2015 because the county could not provide a convincing explanation until the auditor craftily cleared the matter.