A court in Machakos, Mavoko subcounty, has detained a clinical officer who is accused of defiling a minor for three days awaiting DNA results. Chief magistrate C.Oluoch on Friday directed police to hold Bernard Musyoka in Mlolongo police cells. Musyoka was answering to charges of allegedly defiling a 13-year-old pupil on Tuesday. The pupil is said to have been defiled at St Earnest Hospital in Mlolongo after being admitted on Tuesday. Musyoka was arrested after the girl's family reported at Mlolongo police post. The girls' family alleged that the doctor who was on duty that day had prescribed medication to the minor and directed the family to go home and come back in the evening. The minor alleged she was sedated after lunch. "The doctor kept on giving me medicines and he told my mum to go home and come back later since I was to be discharged on the same day on Tuesday," she said. She claimed that she felt weak and passed out and when she woke up, found Musyoka on top of her kissing her while they were completely naked. "...with his tongue in my mouth. He left without saying anything and that's when I realised that I was bleeding and I couldn't move by my own." She said the doctor on the previous night was making advances by calling her sweet names like 'Kamum' but she couldn't confront him. She said a friend her mother had sent to check on her found her lying on the floor and assisted her to dress up. They later went out to seek help "but no one was at the clinic so the friend went home to fetch the minor's mother'. They said they waited at the reception for some minutes before anyone could attend to them only for the doctor to come back heavily drunk. They told the Star that they decided to report the case to the police station after the doctor claimed that they couldn't do anything since they were unable to clear up the medical bill. "When I confronted him, he said I couldn't do anything to him since I cannot even clear up the hospital bill. He denied having defiled my daughter," the mother said. The Standard 8 pupil is now seeking help from the government to ensure justice prevails adding that the doctor had taken away her innocence. "This doctor has completely destroyed my life because for a whole week I haven't gone to school. I don't know how I will face my schoolmates who have known my predicament." Musyoka has been in the police custody for three days now. Athi River Police commander Catherine Ringera said the investigations are still ongoing and they will be presented in court once they are ready. She condemned the act and assured that justice will prevail. The case will be heard on February 20. Edited by R.Wamochie