Commuters are often left stranded when matatu operators decide to go on strike. In 2018, they went on strike to protest the enhancement of famous Michuki rules, leaving passengers stranded on bus stages as others were forced to walk. A year later, the Egyptian company, SWVL ventured into the market providing an alternative tech-based public commuting solution. Lawrence Luchiri started using this app early this year and has decided to keep using it since it saves him time and money. It has ample sitting space and has no conductors. “One can comfortably work while commuting as vehicles have no loud music like in normal matatus. Here, passengers reign supreme,'' he said. Susan Nyawira has been using SWVL for six months now. She says the digital commuter transport is convenient and insulates her from rush hour hustle were commuters fight for spaces in Matatus. ''I place my order and wait pretty for SWVL to pick me from my job place. No rush hour hustles, fares hikes, and hooliganism associated with matatu culture. Last week, I paid Sh25 from Westlands to Syokimau,'' Nyawira said. Despite SWVL having started operation early last year, they faced a ban from the National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA) due to regulatory issues. The Authority cited that they had acquired the wrong license, the Tour Service License violating the Passenger Service Vehicles Regulation. They later resumed operation and have since expanded their routes. They charge a standard fare of sh200 when using the service which acts also as the registration fee. It should take you a week after which they will send you Promo Codes to slash your fare to as low as sh50 depending on how the system chooses. The Promo Codes vary for the passengers boarding this digital commuter service. Lawrence said that the Promo codes help to cut the cost and encourages the customers to continue using the service. “I commuted from Valley Arcade to Nyayo Estate with the bus for sh35 using the Promo codes and I was surprised at how cheap it was”, he said. NTSA has been conducting public participation forums of the new regulations on the Digital services for a period of two weeks across the country to collect views. From the draft of the new regulations, the operators of the service are required to not charge a commission of more than 15 per cent per trip. They are also prohibited from levying or charging other fees over and above the commission. The Digital service operators are also required to pay a fee of sh500, 000 for application and renewal of the operator license which is renewable after three years from the date of issue. These rules come at a time when digital service operators are getting more customers to their service. Digital operators such as SWVL are getting more customers since they charge less for long commutes.