Some primary schools could be upgraded to cater for junior secondary in changes proposed by the Education ministry. The proposal by CS George Magoha comes at a time when secondary schools are struggling with a surge in numbers occasioned by the 100 per cent transition policy. In December, President Uhuru Kenyatta announced that junior secondary will be hosted in secondary schools. However, the CS says implementing CBC in secondary schools will need huge financial muscle and early preparations are necessary to avert a crisis. Magoha was appearing before the Education Committee in Parliament to respond to the Budget Policy Statement. “Junior school will be domiciled in our current secondary schools but some of the good primary schools with good infrastructure will be converted for Junior school use,” the CS said. However, Magoha says, the proposal is subject to adoption by the Fatuma Chege-led task force formed last year in July to iron out transition issues under the new curriculum. The pioneer class is set to complete primary school in 2022 and join junior high school that accommodates grades 7, 8 and 9. It is projected that the population in secondary schools could rise twofold when the junior secondary is rolled out. The National Education Management Information System data shows that currently, the population in secondary school is 3.1 million students. Progress to junior school will also mean double intake in secondary school as the CBC pioneer class meet learners proceeding to the institutions under the 8-4-4 system. “As we move stealthily towards the CBC, we need to plan ahead of time. We need to plan and build schools where our children will go to ensure a smooth transition when CBC enters secondary schools," Magoha said. Learners will also not sit national examinations to transition to secondary as it is in the 8-4-4 system. 100 per cent transition On Wednesday,  Magoha lamented inadequate funds to hold the huge numbers in secondary schools occasioned by 100 per cent transition. Basic Education PS Belio Kipsang said the ministry has received Sh1.2 billion for improving infrastructure but termed it as way less in light of the 100 per cent transition. In the budget policy statement, the Teachers Service Commission will get Sh3.2 billion to recruit additional teachers. The funds will be broken to two: Sh2 billion for 5,000 permanent and pensionable teacher recruitment while Sh1.2 will be used to recruit 10,000 interns. However, TSC secretary Nancy Macharia termed the allocation "far short of the requirement" revealing the teacher shortage currently stands at 114,000. Edited by R.Wamochie