Deputy President William Ruto on Sunday said he will continue participating in the development process of the country and launch more projects in what appears to be open defiance against the President's directive. Speaking at Itierio in Suneka during the consecration of the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Kenya South West region bishop Joseph Omwoyo, Ruto said he will not shy from talking about development. In an attack on ODM leader Raila Odinga, Ruto said Kenyans are not foolish "to fall for his fables and stories". He said Kenyans are now wiser than before to make important decisions about the leaders they want. “The country does not have fools any more, our people know leaders who they want and who are pro-development and those of conjuring up stories to entertain them, let us should respect each other,” he said. Ruto said part of the portfolio of his office is about talking what the government has done for its people. In Kisii, he said, many of the infrastructural projects are already at advanced stages of completion while others have already been finalised. The Deputy President rebuked intolerance to politicians allied to him saying the agenda of BBI was to unite the country, not cause further divisions. “If we are building bridges to unite Kenyans, let's do it well without sinister motives. Bridges are there to link and cannot be built by causing divisions amongst Kenyans." BBI offers Kenyans an opportunity to talk to each other, the DP said. He reiterated the government's commitment to the development of the country. He said the government wants more elderly citizens to be registered in the cash transfer for the elderly scheme. Once registered, Ruto said, they should be given free access to treatment in the country. In Kisii county alone, more than 25,000 elderly people will receive more than Sh600 million in monthly stipends. The deputy president also spoke of the government’s commitment to ensure no child is left behind in education for lacking fees. He said the government has already allocated enough funds that will help fund the education of the vulnerable. “No teacher should send away any Kenyan child from school for lack of fees, resources have been allocated,” he said. Speaking at the same function, South Mugirango MP Sylvanus Osoro said the Gusii people will continue to solidly support the DP in his State House ambition. He said Ruto stands out as the most development-conscious person in the lot seeking the presidency in 2022. Osoro further said the debate on succession must be allowed to go on saying already, others have begun campaigns "and nobody should bar the Deputy President from talking about it". “Pastors are talking about the coming of Jesus whose date of return nobody knows but as we know the date on polls, why should someone tell us not to talk of something we already know when it is going to happen? For me, the succession politics has already begun so let us tall about it,” the vocal MP said. Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi, who is embroiled in squabbles with his boss over his stance on graft, said he will continue with the war on graft. Bomachoge Borabu MP Alfa Miruka who was also present said 2020 should be dedicated to service delivery to Wanjiku. He said the BBI appears to have put the country into early election mood. “Let’s go slow lest we lose track , we are not against the BBI but let us also not put the country on a perpetual electioneering mood," the MP said. Edited by R.Wamochie