South Mugirango MP Silvanus Osoro has accused ODM party leader Raila Odinga of sanitizing corrupt governors. Speaking in Kisii on Sunday, during a function attended by Deputy President William Ruto, Osoro said corrupt governors were now using Raila as a pass to get away with corruption. "Siku hizi ukiwa mwizi kama governor unaoshwa na damu ya Bondo. Unakua msafi kama pamba (These days if you are a corrupt governor, you get washed by the Bondo blood and you become clean)," he said. Osoro said that the same governors turning to Raila as a shield from justice were using BBI for political gains. "You now know the genuine supporters of BBI from those who want to use it for politics. Most of them are corrupts governors who are sanitized by 'Bondo blood'," he said. Osoro said it is evident that Raila Odinga's Capitol Hill offices have become a sanitising ground. He said it is ironic that Raila claims to be fully supporting graft war is entertaining the same people accused of graft. Osoro's sentiments come amid concerns those who are closer to Raila are likely to walk free. Photos have circulated on social media of Raila having met several governors at his office. After the impeachment of former Kiambu governor Ferdinand Waititu earlier in the week, Nairobi governor who is facing the same corruption allegations surfaced with photos of him and Raila. Sonko further printed t-shirts and mounted posters on cars indicating that he was strongly supporting the BBI. This sparked social media outrage with questions to where his stand on corruption is. In July last year, Raila held talks with Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua where they discussed 2022 politics. Mutua visited Raila at his Capitol Hill offices where they also talked on various issues of national importance including the handshake between the AU envoy and President Uhuru Kenyatta. The Machakos county boss said the two discussed the 'philosophical and historical foundation' behind the March 9 handshake and the need to build a cohesive nation. "Maendeleo Chap Chap has always supported the handshake from the word go. We see the bigger picture which is political stability, a pre-requisite for economic growth, wealth and employment creation," Mutua said. The governor also told Raila about his 2022 ambition to run for the country's top seat. "We discussed several scenarios and agreed that political generational change is critical in any society," Mutua said. Earlier on Raila had also met with Kirinyaga governor Anne Waiguru, a meeting that saw her withdraw her defamation case against Raila. She said this in a tweet after meeting with the AU High Representative for Infrastructure at the latter's Capitol Hill office on Wednesday. The row between Raila and Waiguru arose in 2015 after the ODM leader demanded the governor's prosecution for graft at NYS. The issue culminated with the county boss suing Raila for linking her to the loss of Sh791 million at the youth agency. Waiguru, then Devolution CS, sued Raila on September 29, 2015, accusing him of recklessly tarnishing her name. But Raila in his response to MP Osoro said, "The MP has options. He can initiate a legal process against governors he believes have cases to answer". Through his spokesman Dennis Onyango, Raila said Osoro was elected by his constituents to lead and not mourn with them. "He frequented Capitol hill until he realised the PM was not keen on him. What was he seeking cleansing for back then?," he posed.