Two CEC members sacked by former Governor Ferdinand Waititu have made a comeback under newly sworn-in Governor James Nyoro. Waititu was impeached and is facing graft charges involving Sh580 million. On Wednesday at county headquarters in Kiambu town Nyoro named Dr Joseph Murega as the new CEC for Health and Isabel Waiyaki to head Youth and Sports. Murega was CEC for health until he was sacked in 2018 for being perceived to be too close to then Deputy Governor James Nyoro. Waititu said he sacked Murega due to a crisis of congestion, lack of drugs and food in many county hospitals. Waiyaki who by 2018 was Trade CEC was also accused of being too close to  Nyoro. Waititu accused her of not involving him in the work of the Trade department. The Youth and Sports docket had been held by former vernacular radio broadcaster Karungo wa Thangwa who was impeached by the county assembly accusing him of abuse of office, gross misconduct and incompetence. Waititu did not sign the impeachment of Thangwa but Nyoro did. Former Gatundu North MP Kigo Njenga who was the CEC for Finance survived because though he had been termed a Waititu ally, he later improved ties with Nyoro. He was moved to head the Trade and Cooperative Development Docket. Martin Njogu remains Head of Public Service and county secretary. Finance and Economic Planning will be headed by Wilson Mburu; Education, Culture, GEnder and Social Services by Mary Kamau. Lands, Housing, Physical Planning and Urban Development will be headed by James Mitambo; Water, Environment, Energy and Natural Resources by David Kuria. Administration and Public Service will be headed by Margret Waithera; Livestock and Agriculture by Joseph Kamau; Roads, Transport, Public Works and Utilities by Samuel Mugo. The nominee for deputy governor Joyce Ngugi is the national chairperson for Child Services. She is pursuing a PhD in leadership and governance at JKUAT and a master's degree in counselling and psychology from Kenyatta University. Nyoro appointed Maina Muturi as the new chief of staff. He said that there will be new directorates for service delivery to ensure the county meets its targets. A Liaison directorate will link the countyand the national government, development partners and the diaspora. Nyoro said that changes will also be made with chief officers, directors and other officers io streamline the government. (Edited by V. Graham)  