Chapa Dimba Nairobi region champions Acakoro Ladies will battle it out with Beijing Raiders at the Jamhuri High School in a repeat of last year's final. The two sides have dominated the Nairobi championships, with Beijing winning the inaugural edition two years ago before succumbing 5-0 to the champions last year. Raiders beat Kibarage Girls 3-0 in the first semi-final to book their place. Martha Mutheu opened scoring in the 27th minute before captain Maximilla Robbie grabbed a brace to put the result to bed in the 68th and 80th. Raiders coach Mark Okwiri is relishing the opportunity of reclaiming the title. "I expected to win by a bigger margin but the 3-0 score is still convincing. Our objective will be to win the tournament. We expect a tough match but I am confident the girls to deliver," said Okwiri. Acakoro ladies were the star of the show after humiliating St. Anne's Eaglets 5-1 in the second semi-final. Catherine Omondi scored a goal in each  half. Her first came in the  2nd minute before adding another in the 67th minute as the Pauline Awuor-tutored side ran riot. Florence Achieng (14th minute), Sylvia Makungu (17th) and Herine Atieno (30th) were also on the score sheet. Shantel Muthoni pulled one back for Eaglets at the stroke of halftime. Eaglets were fruitless in their second half exploits to overturn the result. Acakoro coach Pauline Awour applauded her charges for playing according to her script and remained optimistic that they will retain the title. "We took our chances in the first half because we knew our opponents will be stronger in the second and the girls did not disappoint. The 5-0 defeat in the first season is still fresh in our minds though we are not planning for revenge. We just want to try and beat them in the final." Meanwhile, Dagoreti Mixed High School will battle it with Hakati Sportiff in the boys' final. Dagoretti edged Kenya School of Government 3-0 in their semi-final with first-half goals from Jamin Mongoi, Felix Okoth and Victor Hagai. In the secind semi, Hakati were too strong for their opponents, putting Brookshine Academy to the sword with a deserved 3-0 victory. Lewis Bandi (16th minute), Juma Otieno (59th) and Levis Mutava (76th) were the difference in a dominant one-sided encounter.