Many schools risk closure following heavy rainfall in the last two weeks, with children forced to remain at home because of swollen rivers. Heavy rains are being experienced in the Rift Valley, Central, Western, Coast and Nairobi regions. Nicholas Maiyo, the Kenya Parents Association chairperson said that children have been forced to stay away from their schools due to flooding of rivers in rural areas. The Education Ministry is yet to give any update on the extent the rains have affected teaching and learning in the country. Maiyo on Sunday asked parents to be vigilant when sending their children to cross rivers and streams because it is risky. "We request parents not to send their children to schools if it involves crossing these streams as it could prove to be risky. We had gotten information last year too that many such streams pose problems for commuters and are hopeful that a solution will be found out soon," Maiyo said. Maiyo says the association is in consultation with the Education ministry to map out areas worst affected. "Our kids want to study, they want to go to school but the flooding in the streams does not allow them to reach their school. We request the administration to build a bridge as early as possible so that the children can continue their studies without problems," he said. Maiyo also raised the possibility of waterborne disease outbreak in schools. He says hygiene in public schools is a challenge and in the wake of increased stagnant water, an outbreak is imminent. But Kenya Primary Schools Heads Association chairman Nicholas Gathemia on Sunday said the association is yet to receive reports of schools closed down due to the floods. "We are working with the education ministry to try and identify schools that could have been badly affected so that an alternative is sought," Gathemia told the Star yesterday. The weatherman has announced that the heavy rains are expected throughout this week and more rain is expected next week. By yesterday morning, the heavy rains were already being felt as floods cut off about five schools in Karachuonyo and Uasin Gishu. In this area, several schools in the have been cut off by floods, resulting in the disruption of classes at several schools.