Wajir town residents can quench their thirst with safe drinking water following the commissioning of a solar-powered water desalination kiosk. The purifying machine can produce 2,000 cubic litres per hour through reverse osmosis. It was jointly financed by the Wajir Water and Sewerage Company (Wajwasco), World Vision and Boreal Light GmbH. Governor Mohamed Abdi said that the residents' cry for clean, safe and affordable water has been answered. He said residents have suffered in the hands of merchants of misery who took advantage of the situation to sell water at exorbitant prices. “I am pleased to report that my administration and other investors have answered your distress call,” said Abdi. He directed Wajwasco to sell the water at an affordable price to the residents. Residents urged the governor to ensure the purification system is set up in other areas. Water in Wajir is saline, and people rely on shallow wells which is unsafe to drink. Residents have relied on vendors and bottled water both of which are expensive. The situation is worsened by the fact that the residents buy the bottled water for domestic use like cooking. Unlike other areas where a five-litre bottle of water goes for Sh100, Wajir traders sell it for Sh200. Abdi urged the water firm to begin desalinating all viable boreholes chosen in collaboration with his administration and other non-state actors. The governor said that the quality of drinking water has a direct impact on the health of its consumers. Abdi further warned those with intention of personalising natural water sources of unspecified action. “All water resources belong to the county government. Bringing water management under one entity is one way in which we can invest our resources for more effective and reliable results,” he said. He said the vastness of the county has lowered response time to mechanical breakdowns that disrupt water supply. The high number of boreholes within the county has also increased the maintenance cost. Poor infrastructure in most rural areas affects day to day operation and lowers real-time response schedule to the residents. World Vision Kenya Wajir project manager Joseph Egesa said the commissioning of the desalination system means improved access to affordable, clean drinking water for children, men and women of the county. (edited by O. Owino)