The various national rugby teams will require Sh400 million for international assignments this year. The teams include Shujaa, Kenya Simbas, Kenya Lionesses and Chipu—all requiring Sh100 million each to sufficiently meet their expenses for 2020. Simbas will be playing in the Africa Cup while the Lionesses have World Cup qualifier in April as well as an assignment in the World Sevens Series. Chipu will be taking part in the Barthes Cup on home soil in April. Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) chairman Oduor Gangla said the monies will cater for various training camps, allowances, salaries and miscellaneous expenses for the team for the year, Speaking at stakeholders press breakfast yesterday, Gangla said the money will be funded by both corporate and government. “We are exploring various avenues and speaking to both corporates and government to see where they can help for our various national teams,” added Gangla. The chairman assured the sponsors that there will be accountability and transparency on monies coming into the union. He said their strategic plan for the next five years will be to revive the age-grade structure as well as improve coaching at the grassroots. “We already have a Kenya Under- 18 team which will be going to Namibia for a Sevens tournament and we are looking at reviving the Kenya schoolboys team with players from the Prescott Cup.  We also hope to improve our coaching to ensure our players grasp the basic skills,” he added. The KRU boss urged the various corporates to fund other products in the rugby union like the Kenya Cup, women's rugby as well as get into rugby programme. "As KRU, we are urging sponsors to come on board and support our various products to grow and they will surely get value for money,” he noted. East African Breweries Limited Group Corporate relations director Eric Kiniti thanked the union for having the forum and said they are keen to extend the partnership that Tusker has in a bid to grow the game. James Gacihi, a partner at Ernest and Young, said the firm and the union need synergy in order to grow the game. Present during the event were Radio Africa Group chairman Kiprono Kittony, managing director of Redhouse Okoth Obado and head of beer at East African Breweries Anne Joy Muhoro among others.