Jack Daniel’s is launching its inaugural Bartender’s Mentorship Program that will provide Kenyan bartenders the opportunity to master their craft through a 360’ educative and entrepreneurship initiative that will cover all aspects of the bartending profession known as Tennessee Campus. The program will kickstart in Nairobi from March 2020 onwards. The ethos of mentorship and innovation is at the heart of the Jack Daniel’s brand. Back in the 1860’s Dan Call, alongside Master Distiller Nearest Green, taught a young Jasper ‘Jack’ Daniel the secrets of distilling Tennessee whiskey.  With their mentorship and Jack’s passion for craft, he went on to build a thriving whiskey enterprise and one of the world’s biggest whiskey brands still enjoyed in ‘Pubs’ and ‘Fine Establishments’ around the world today. David Mwangi Mutunga, Jack Daniel’s East Africa Brand Ambassador will be sharing the Jack Daniel’s process, quality, and craft with the bartending community. He will be sharing tips with the local bartenders on how to best utilize Jack Daniel’s products behind the bar. Jack’s legacy continues to live on. Bringing that spirit to Kenya and guiding the program will be internationally renowned bartending advisor Nidal Ramini, who serves as the Head of Advocacy for Jack Daniel’s brands in Europe and Africa. With over 20 years of experience in the industry, Nidal has gone from working behind the bar to owning several bars in the United Kingdom and will share his personal insights and knowledge directly. He will be giving local bartenders the chance to define their own path through mentorship, just like Jack did all those years ago. Through the duration of Tennessee Campus, Kenyan bartenders will receive: The Jack Daniel’s team will be recruiting local bartenders from 01 February to March. Follow the Jack Daniel’s official social media platforms for more updates and a chance to get registered for the Tennessee Campus event. Brand Pages Facebook - @JackDanielsKenya Instagram - @JackdanielsKenya Jack Daniel’s is launching its inaugural Bartender’s Mentorship Program that will provide Kenyan bartenders the opportunity to master their craft through a 360’ educative and entrepreneurship initiative that will cover all aspects of the bartending profession known as Tennessee Campus. The program will kickstart in Nairobi from March 2020 onwards. The ethos of mentorship and innovation is at the heart of the Jack Daniel’s brand. Back in the 1860’s Dan Call, alongside Master Distiller Nearest Green, taught a young Jasper ‘Jack’ Daniel the secrets of distilling Tennessee whiskey.  With their mentorship and Jack’s passion for craft, he went on to build a thriving whiskey enterprise and one of the world’s biggest whiskey brands still enjoyed in ‘Pubs’ and ‘Fine Establishments’ around the world today. David Mwangi Mutunga, Jack Daniel’s East Africa Brand Ambassador will be sharing the Jack Daniel’s process, quality, and craft with the bartending community. He will be sharing tips with the local bartenders on how to best utilize Jack Daniel’s products behind the bar. Jack’s legacy continues to live on. Bringing that spirit to Kenya and guiding the program will be internationally renowned bartending advisor Nidal Ramini, who serves as the Head of Advocacy for Jack Daniel’s brands in Europe and Africa. With over 20 years of experience in the industry, Nidal has gone from working behind the bar to owning several bars in the United Kingdom and will share his personal insights and knowledge directly. He will be giving local bartenders the chance to define their own path through mentorship, just like Jack did all those years ago. Through the duration of Tennessee Campus, Kenyan bartenders will receive: The Jack Daniel’s team will be recruiting local bartenders from 01 February to March. Follow the Jack Daniel’s official social media platforms for more updates and a chance to get registered for the Tennessee Campus event. Brand Pages Facebook - @JackDanielsKenya Instagram - @JackdanielsKenya