President Kenyatta has asked governors to be cautious with their work. Uhuru on Saturday said the county chiefs who will allow corruption will be in for trouble as that which befell former Kiambu governor Ferdinand Waititu. Waititu was earlier in the week impeached by the Senate plenary for gross misconduct, abuse of office and corruption. So far his deputy James Nyoro was on Friday sworn in as the new governor. Waititu's efforts to bar Nyoro from being sworn in were futile after the High Court declined to grant him the orders. He will be battling over his fate this Monday at the court. But Uhuru said a time has come for all the governors who are custodians of county resources to be accountable. Speaking at Wanguru Stadium in Kirinyaga county Uhuru further asked all the ward reps to step up their oversight role in their respective counties. Uhuru said only with accountability will Kenyans benefit from the gains of devolution. "Where are the MCAs? can you play your oversight role without any favor, "Uhuru posed. Earlier on Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka said all the governors linked with corruption must be sent packing. The Wiper leader was speaking during the fourth BBI consultative forum in Kitui County. Kalonzo who is currently serving as a peace envoy to South Sudan said President Uhuru Kenyatta must be commended for his resolve on graft war. “Uhuru has taken out the sword on corruption and this is a clear indication that the war is inevitable,” Kalonzo said. “If you are in public service and you are touched by this sword, do not cry and blame the President. Let the corrupt carry their own cross as the president has always said.” Kalonzo further reiterated that to raise the bar on the graft war, the Senate must ensure that any governor who appears before its plenary they are sent packing as this will be setting good precedence against corruption. "We must be very clear on this, governors appearing before the senate plenary for trial on matters of corruption should not be spared, we must help the president on this corruption war,” he said.