All manner of stories are swirling around about the leadership saga at the University of Nairobi but the culprit hasn't been smoked out. Apparently, a  former top official at UoN is causing the disruption, threatening to bring the university to its knees. Those in the know claim someone could have lied there was a problem with the recruitment of the VC by the Council. The idea was to throw out the baby with the bathwater. This was to give the ex-official an easy comeback after leaving reluctantly. He is said to have never quit UoN. His grip is suspicious. Many observers claim he is now pulling strings to influence the next VC. As the truth unfolds, insiders are apprehensive about the future of Kenya’s foremost institution of higher learning. Terribly distorted recruitment in a Tourism Agency has exposed a rotten system where corruption and nepotism have permeated every facet. So skewed was the exercise that the applicant who scored highest was rated number 27. Corridors understands the chairman of the board tinkered with the results to sneak in the son doing undergraduate studies. Further, the HR manager manipulated the results and ensured the wife came tops despite flunking the interview. Where's our Governor? That's what thousands of residents of a county in Western Kenya are asking. They are complaining they have lost their county boss to the BBI rallies. Corridors has learnt since the boss attended the BBI rally in Kakamega, he has never set foot in his own county hat has been hit by a natural disaster. From Kakamega, the governor proceeded to Mombasa where he stayed for a week after the Mama Ngina Waterfront rally — in the name of having a workshop for top county officials. From Mombasa, the Governor went straight to Kitui and back to Nairobi. It is said he is planning to attend the Wote rally before finishing up with the Meru circus. Troubled villagers are now wondering when the BBI rallies will end so that their chief executive officer can attend to them. Still on BBI rallies, it has emerged that it has become a source of fun and merrymaking for some political players. During the Mombasa meeting, it was whispered one top official partied the whole night. This had a ripple effect on D-day. The official is said to have been so exhausted that he twice lost track of his speech. The real trouble was dancing to "no one can stop reggae" that was being belted out at the rally. It is said the man was tactfully helped to leave the podium without the crowd realising that there was a problem.   