Aspiring Football Kenya Federation women representative Sally Bolo has opted out of the fresh federation polls until a clear roadmap is established to pave way for controversy-free elections after the current legal impasse is sorted'. The Gor Mahia treasurer, who had put her hat in the ring for the same post in the cancelled polls, said she would consider running for the position if things change. "This decision is premised on a firm belief that for meaningful change and progress to be realised in (Kenyan) football, all stakeholders must pull in one direction," said Bolo in her statement. She added: "Acrimony such as the ones witnessed in the current process does not bode well for football and rob the sport of a much needed tranquil aura to thrive." Even as Bolo opted out, aspirants from Coast, Western, North Eastern, Nyanza, Upper Rift, Lower Rift, Nairobi and regions submitted their nomination papers on Friday to the FKF Electoral Board ahead of the upcoming repeat polls. The scrutiny was observed as the aspirants handed in the relevant documents to the Board’s secretariat after which acknowledgement slips were handed to those who passed the eligibility criteria as stipulated in the Electoral Code Among candidates who submitted their documents is Bishop Tony Kweya, who will be defending his position as the NEC member for the Western region. Tony, who was accompanied by all county aspirants from the Western region, lauded the nomination process and the reception he received. “We have received a cordial reception from the Board’s Secretariat who have achieved a seamless process. I urge other aspirants who wish to engage in the process to come and hand in their papers,” said Bishop Tony Kweya. The deadline for submission of documents is Saturday, after which the Board will publish a preliminary list of candidates on February 25, 2020. Disputes around the nomination process and the preliminary list of candidates will be heard by the board between February 26 and February 28, 2020, and if need be, by the Appeals Committee, between February 29 and March 1, 2020. The Board will then publish the final list of candidates at both county and national level on March 2, 2020, ahead of the county elections on March 14 and National elections on March 27, 2020. The board is set to release a preliminary list of candidates for elective positions at the county level ahead of the upcoming county elections.