Al Shabaab militants are targeting Ijara and Holugho, targeting KPR officers and their families and instilling widespread terror. On Sunday at 9.30pm, heavily armed militants stormed Qorisa Center, a few kilometres from Maalani town and torched four houses belonging to KPR officers. They also torched a tractor at a construction site. The officers and their families were not in their houses, having fled following the wave of attacks targeting them. On Friday last week, an unknown number of militants attacked Sangailu area, Ijara subcounty, in Garissa where they also torched a police reservists house. No casualties were reported.  on February 13, the militants torched shops and three houses belonging to NPRs in Sangailu. The attackers first abducted two people, a father and son, and forced them to identify the reservists' houses before later releasing 80-year-old Mohammed  Mursal and his son, Abdi Mohammed Earlier this month, an 80-year-old man was killed after militants attacked Sangole village in Ijara subcounty. Last week militants killed three non-local passengers on a bus at Banisa, Mandara county. It was heading to Nairobi from Mandera. MP Sophia Abdi speaking to the Star on the phone on Monday, said the worrying new wave of attacks is meant to instil fear among the reservists. "It is obvious that the militants are now targeting National Police Reservists because they believe they are not only out to eliminate them but are also providing intelligence to security agencies about their whereabouts. "Something has to be done by our security apparatus to arrest the situation," she said. In the past militants appeared to be trying to carve out a caliphate in the region by eliminating non-locals and instilling fear in Muslims and ensuring they do not cooperate with security forces.. In a previous interview with the Star, northeastern regional commissioner Nicodemus Ndalana described the militants' change of tack as "desperate acts" following heightened security. He repeated the government mantra that it was determined to rid the region of militants who have killed hundreds of people. (Edited by V. Graham)