Seventy-one people have pleaded guilty in an Eldoret court to charges of forging KDF calling letters. They were arrested after reporting to Moi Barracks Recruits Training College in Eldoret with the fake documents. Some 28 others, however, denied the charges when they appeared before principal magistrate Naomi Wairimu. Each of the suspects was charged with two counts of forgery and uttering a false document. Those who pleaded guilty were fined Sh10,000 each for each of the counts while those who denied will have their cases heard. The case will be heard on February 24, the magistrate ordered, releasing them on Sh30,000 bail each. The youth seeking entry into KDF allegedly committed the offence on unknown dates with other people who were not in court. They were nabbed during screening by military police on January 26 when they arrived for admission to start training at the RTC last week. They were then handed over to the Kenya Police Service to be charged. Colonel Paul Njuguna from Public Affairs department at the KDF headquarters said only those who were recruited at the advertised centres in all subcounties were taken in for training. “It’s unfortunate that Kenyans continue to be duped or conned during the recruitment yet we advertised in the media all the recruitment venues and dates," he said. He said the number of those conned had been increasing every year despite efforts by KDF to give the public full information on the recruitment exercise. Njuguna said they were working with the police to arrest those involved in the fraud. “Those who are found engaging in these illegal acts must face the law because it’s not proper. Kenyans must also know that recruitment is a transparent and open exercise carried out at the advertised centres only." Some of those in court said they had been forced to pay up to Sh300,000 each for the calling letters. “We believed the people who gave us the letters were genuine KDF officers only to discover that they were not after being arrested,” one of the youths said. Several weeks ago, police in Eldoret arrested four people who were found with machines for printing fake documents including the KDF calling letters. Edited by R.Wamochie