 Northeastern leaders have resolved to push for the implementation of ministerial directive that entry points for residents who wish to join teacher training colleges be lowered to D+ (plus). The resolution was made during a crisis meeting in Nairobi on Tuesday following the decision by the Teachers Service Commission to withdraw all teachers deployed to the region because of insecurity. Recent terror attacks in Garissa have targeted non-local teachers. Three teachers were killed in a suspected al-Shabaab attack in Kamuthe area in Garissa in a dawn raid on January 13. Local leaders are now seeking solutions to address the crisis after TSC transferred all non-local teachers. The day-long crisis meeting held in Nairobi was attended by elected leaders including governors, senators and MPs from the region. Students enrolling at teachers training colleges are currently required to have a minimum C (plain) grade. An MP who attended the meeting told the Star they will seeking the intervention by President Uhuru Kenyatta to see to it that the ministerial directive is implemented. The directive was made by former Education CS Amina Mohamed. She has since been moved to the Sports ministry. Amina proposed that Muslim or Somali students be given affirmative action so there can be enough local teachers to be deployed in Northeastern. But TSC challenged the directive in court and had it quashed. “This time around, we are determined to ensure that we sort out this problem once and for all. The good thing is that we already have workable solutions that we believe if implemented will address the current teacher’s shortage,” the MP said. More than 800 students had been admitted in the colleges when the court quashed the directive last year. They were withdrawn. The leaders said TSC was frustrating efforts to find a lasting solution to the teaching crisis in the region. Most schools are at risk of being closed down because they don't have teachers. Eldas MP Aden Keynan said the intention of terrorists is to divide the people of Kenya by sabotaging security, education, health and communication systems. "By transferring non-local teachers en-masse, TSC has succumbed to this terrorist trap," Keynan said. He added, “I can't imagine what threat it is that teachers will face which other non-somali population who reside in those towns will not face. This is pure sabotage and we condemn it in the strongest terms possible. TSC needs to stop this careless decision-making from the boardrooms of Nairobi without thinking about the far-reaching effects to our children.” He asked President Kenyatta to urgently address the challenges facing the region, saying the security situation was an emergency. "We want him to take note of what is happening and ensure that these decisions are reversed and our children are given the constitutional right to education to be taught by teachers who are employed by TSC,” Keynan said.  edited by p. obuya