After hitting the ground running in the Kenyan Premier League with a brace against Gor Mahia last weekend, Sofapaka and Nigerian striker Promise Chinonso will be hunting to net more than ten goals in the remaining bit of the season. Chinonso joined the 2009 league champions on the eve of the closure of the January transfer window from Lagos Atletico FC and hardly three matches in the league, the forward is not shy of setting sky-high targets. Chinonso made himself a name after putting the ball past the net past Gor’s custodian David Mapigano twice which consequently opened his goal account at the new club. The 19-year old said the brace will inspire him to notch double digits as well help Sofapaka break their eleven year KPL trophy drought. “It was a great feeling to score my first league goal against the reigning champions. I had came close in the previous match against Mathare United and I am glad the double relieved the pressure off my shoulders. I will be seeking to net more than ten from the remaining matches which I hope will help the club win the league,” he said The striker sounded the warning bells to defenders that his pair with Ghanaian man Jedinak Ameyaw will wreck havoc and score at will. Ameyaw, who also joined Sofapaka last month, has two goals against his name. He showered the club’s playmakers with praise for their prowess in supplying ammunition and pledged to make the scoring chances created count. “I always enjoy playing alongside Ameyaw upfront. He is a skilled striker who can dribble and shoot from range and soon we will be scoring for fun and tormenting opposing defenders. The club has quality playmakers who make the supply abundance and I think it will be fair to appreciate their efforts and those of the rest of the teammates by scoring,” he added. The forward meanwhile believes he has the capacity to defy odds and make it to the national team, Super Eagles. Even though he acknowledges that making  the cut in the Super Eagles team is a tall order, he reckons that his two-year stay in Kenya will be a stepping stone to greater heights among them is a national team call up. “It is the dream of any player to represent his nation in international assignments and my case is not different. I hope I will have a glamorous stay in Kenya which will prompt the Super Eagles technical bench to consider me for the next assignments,” he concluded