Good morning, At sunset tomorrow, a group of 25 diplomats will board a magnificent wooden boat in Mombasa for five hours of pure luxury and pampering. The evening dinner cruise at the magical Tamarind Dhow will begin at the pier at about 6.30 pm. Here are the stories making headlines in the Star today. Stanley Kozlowski, the principal figure in the alleged Rashid Echesa security scam, claims to have worked on agriculture projects with Nyeri County before 2017. Kozlowski, 55 years old of Lake Zurich, Illinois, is the manager and vice-president of Eco Advanced Technologies (EAT)  which allegedly paid a Sh11.5 million bribe to former Sports minister Echesa to secure a Sh39.5 billion secure communications contract with the Department of Defense. Kenya through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is splashing millions of shillings to win the UN security council seat that is also being eyed by Djibouti. Over the last two months, Kenya has flown into the country at least 45 permanent representatives to the UN as part of its “soft power” to win over the world. At least 1,700 health facilities have been dropped by the National Hospital Insurance Fund for fraud and poor standards. The board says many of those dropped were bogus "container clinics" accredited with the sole purpose of siphoning funds. The Intergovernmental Budget and Economic Council (IBEC) has come to an agreement that will see county governments get Sh316.5 billion, rather than the proposed Sh317.5 billion, for the 20220-21 financial year. In a meeting chaired by the Deputy President at his Karen office on Tuesday, IBEC said the amount is like what was allocated to the devolved functions last year. Whereas in other years lingering short rains instead of droughts would be seen as a blessing, this year the unusual weather has come with an unwelcome guest: desert locusts. Swarming in from the Middle East in groups as large as 80 million locusts, they first hit Mandera before flying their way to different corners of the country.