The National Assembly on Wednesday approved former Nyeri Senator Mutahi Kagwe as the new Health Cabinet Secretary. The House also approved Betty Maina’s nomination for Trade CS. She is succeeding Peter Munya, currently manning the Agriculture docket. He takes over from Sicily Kariuki was moved to the Labour ministry in Cabinet changes by President Uhuru Kenyatta in Mombasa on January 16. MPs hailed the appointment of Kagwe with a clarion call that he restores order at Afya House and position the ministry to provide health care to the people. During his vetting, the CS pledged to work towards a health insurance system and in this regard prioritized a clean up at NHIF. The National Hospital Insurance Fund is cash strapped, a situation he wants to be changed by having state agencies get covered by the national insurer.’ A Senate Ad Hoc committee is currently probing irregularities in a Medical Equipment Scheme that has raised a lot of concerns. The former lawmaker will be the fourth Health CS in President Kenyatta’s administration after Sicily, Cleophas Mailu, and James Macharia. Lawmakers urged him to consider pushing for proper implementation of the Presidents Universal Health Coverage (UHC) agenda. During the debate, Deputy Speaker Moses Cheboi said they vetted the minister and confirmed he was suitable for the task. Leader of Majority Aden Duale asked the CS to consider prioritizing the extra responsibility of running healthcare in Nairobi county as well. Governor Mike Sonko passed the functions to the national government at State House, Nairobi on Tuesday. Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa said the CS has what it takes to ensure the county runs smoothly. He further lauded Betty for her appointment as Trade CS whose maiden task would ensure there are no disruptions following constraints staged by the Coronavirus. Emuhaya MP Omboko Milemba said the two are qualified. The appointments of PS nominees Enosh Momanyi (Physical Planning), Johnson Weru (Trade), Simon Nabukwesi (University Education and Research), Julius Juan (TVET) were approved. A question will be put on the nomination of Solomon Kitungu as Transport PS on Thursday afternoon. There were no petitions filed against the candidates ahead of the vetting. They were also cleared by the EACC, KRA among other state agencies.