Environmental conservation does not lie only in the hands of the government. The main objectives are usually to protect the natural resources and the existing environment and where possible to repair the damage or reverse dangerous trends affecting the environment. Most of the time, the population rarely takes the need to be keen on conserving the environment seriously. Thus, recently, we have been seeing a gradual deterioration of the environment, especially in the dangerous rates of global warming. This has affected the survival of the human race as we are uncertain of what mother nature has in store for us due to our greed and ignorance. In Kenya, for instance, we have experienced a change in weather patterns. Most parts of last year we faced drought which led to hunger across most parts of the country. This should have served as a wake-up call for the conscious mind to help in the conservation of the environment. Kenya is very wealthy in terms of resources but still one of the most wasteful nations. We are ignorant and only take things seriously when it is too late. We have enough resources to sustain the whole nation but due to poor governance and sadly, corruption, people encroach forests to cultivate leading to deforestation The other thing is waste management. Most of the country’s sewers are poorly managed leading to flooding of waste out of the lines onto land or water bodies. Waste is also not properly treated before disposal in most cases. The world is evolving and so is technology. Technology has developed ways of dealing with waste through the use of biofuels like animal and human waste. There is even a modern way of treating human waste through the modern use of bio-septic tanks. The production of biogas through the use of animal waste has been very helpful to the protection of the environment as it is keen on reducing tree felling by providing a cheaper alternative to the production of cooking gas and even lighting. Farm owners should take up biogas as it is cheap, efficient and idealistic.  Takamoto Biogas Company