Parliament is closing in on former top Prisons officers suspected to have occasioned the Sh6.2 billion contentious pending bills in the state department for correctional services. Members of the powerful Public Accounts Committee are concerned that an unholy alliance between suppliers and senior Prisons officers was responsible for the multi-billion-shilling mess. According to Auditor General, the Correctional Services is choking under Sh6,204,906,534 unsettled bills and which the state department says it won’t pay as they are not genuine. Correctional Service PS Zeinab Hussein told the committee that he has subjected the bills to various vetting by special audit and multi-agency task force teams but all have warned against paying. Almost all the bills – according to vetting reports – are fraudulent, irregular or illegal with glaring gaps. “We even took the same to Treasury auditors who spent 90 days going through the claims but the verdict was: We should not pay,” Zeinab told the committee. “We even spent a further Sh14 million to have the 48 auditors go round all the stations in the country but the verdict was still the same.” According to Zeinab, none of the payment vouchers presented by the suppliers before the bills pending committees met the standard requirements, a pointer to possible manipulation of documents. In some instances, goods were requisitioned by use of credit letters contravening Section 58(1) of the Public Procurement and Assets Disposal Act, 2015 which provides that all tenders must be in writing, signed and be sealed. The special audit report also revealed that there were no inspection and acceptance certificates made available or attached to the payment vouchers as required by law. In its report, the multi-agency team - which included officers from DCI, EACC and Attorney General – said some prison stations disowned some of the pending vouchers such as Sh1,000,000 claimed by M/s Bisaki from Shimo la Tewa Prison. The task force also discovered fraudulent vouchers at Meru Women Prison amounting to Sh9.2 million for foodstuff not delivered and the officers disowned the signatures. “The special audits and the task force reports before me, that formed part of attempts by the state department to seek solutions as aforementioned, revealed that the laws and regulations on public procurement and public finance management were not fully adhered to as stipulated and thus could not be validated or authenticated for payment,” the documents tabled before PAC by the PS show. The committee chaired by Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi suspected a conspiracy in the correctional department and demanded that all senior accounting officers who served in the state department from 2009 appear before the House team. To get to the bottom of the matter, the committee also demanded the list of all suppliers who have been paid since 2009 when the bills started accruing. Those who will appear before the PAC are former Principal Secretaries, Chief Finance Officers, chief accountants, heads of procurement, and the commissioner general from 2009. The lawmakers put up a strong argument of a possible coalition between the suppliers and top prison officers to defraud taxpayers of millions. “Who in the public service occasioned this situation? It couldn’t be occasioned by the suppliers,” Wandayi said. Suna East MP Junet Mohammed – also a member of the committee – demanded that the committee retreats and writes a special report on the pending bills alone to help thousands of Kenyans who he noted are facing auction after doing business with the Prisons. “This is a matter of national importance. Sh6.2 billion is not small money. The matter is going to affect people who have done genuine business with the institution,” Junet said.   