Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok wants to meet education officials, parents and leaders to discuss the poor performance of schools in Turkana. Out of 8,000 students who sat last year's KCSE, only 227 are set to join university, yet the county has two national schools, Lodwar Boys and Turkana Girls. The two had a mean score of 6.01 and 6.85 respectively, almost half the nation's leading school Kenya High with 10.46. "The performance is totally below the standard that is required. They are competing with county schools. We have to look for the problem because we are killing the hopes of primary students who have passed well," Nanok said. "Director of education together with parents and local leaders, we must look for the problem.” Nanok spoke during the opening of Turkana High School, built by Mission of Hope International. The governor said for seven years, his government has spent close to Sh1 billion for bursary to support about 18,000 students in universities and secondary schools. "Is it the number of teachers that is still needed or parents that are not doing their responsibilities or leaders that are not enforcing?" Nanok asked. He said whenever his government puts out an advert for engineers, electricians and medicine specialist personnel, he can't get them, forcing him to hire the services. "Those whom we expected to be doctors and engineers, their hopes have been killed at form four as they can't proceed to the next level," he said. INSECURITY THREAT In July 2019, Katilu Boys Secondary alumni group urged the government to beef up security in Turkana so learners can study peacefully. The former students decried the rampant insecurity that has led to the killings of teachers, students and also affected the performance of the school. In early June, a teacher at Napeitom Primary School was shot dead by bandits. Oscar Okeya was killed on Napeitom Lokori road, Turkana East, while heading to Lodwar for the half-term holiday. Turkana borders West Pokot, where cattle rustling has caused the deaths of many people and loss of properties. Led by Joseph Adome, the old boys visited the school on Sunday with plans to build an ultra-modern library as a way of giving back to the school. "We call upon our leaders from Turkana and West Pokot to intervene and find a lasting solution that can enhance both development and education," Adome said. He said educating pastoralists' children can help fight insecurity, hunger, poverty and underdevelopment. Anthony Simiyu urged the government to deploy more security officers to ensure students have a conducive environment for learning. Students thanked the old boys and promised to improve their school performance. David Edukon, a Form 3 student, said the ultra-modern library will boost their morale for learning and inspire them to deliver better results. "It's a big challenge for us to concentrate in class when we hear gunshots. Some of us hail from regions where we never hear gunshots at all," Ekudon said. He urged the government to beef up security so they can continue with their studies without interference.