Since December, 11 suspected gang members were lynched by the public in five separate cases of mob justice in Mombasa county. Four suspected gang members were lynched in two separate attacks on Tuesday and Wednesday in Junda Mishomoroni. On Tuesday, a suspect was killed by a mob after he broke into a house and stole electronics. Three suspected Wakali Kwanza gang members were lynched on Wednesday night after they attacked members of the public with pangas. "If the public condemns criminal gangs we will end their activities but we don't support the killing of suspects by the public," Kisauni subcounty police commander Julius Kirago said. He said residents have supported police in the drive to eliminate gangs in Kisauni. According to police reports, in December, two suspected criminals were killed by a mob in Kisauni for alleged theft. Kirago said four suspected members of the Wakali Kwanza gang had surrendered to police in January and February. "The suspects who had surrendered have helped us arrest over 10 suspects within two months," he said. Residents of Changamwe on Wednesday morning arrested a suspected gang member as he attempted to steal from an M-Pesa shop. Changamwe police boss Ali Ndiema confirmed the suspect was arrested after residents learned his pistol wasn't loaded. A month ago two suspected gang members were lynched in Likoni. They were killed in the morning after a failed attempt to steal a boda boda from the rider taking them home. Police in Kisauni are looking for other suspects who were among a group of five killed on Wednesday in Mishomoroni. Kirago said two were shot dead while three were lynched by the members of the public. "We recovered two machetes and a kitchen knife from the deceased," he said." The group attacked members of the public after the burial of a suspected gang member lynched by a mob on Tuesday. According to the witnesses, about 20 people armed with pangas injured several residents. The deceased's families had not claimed the bodies as of Thursday morning, Kirago said. They are at Coast General Hospital mortuary pending identification. Edited by R.Wamochie