The government has sought to assure Kenyans living in counties invaded by desert locusts that the national government is swiftly moving to control the swarms of locusts, which have been destroying huge swathes of crops and vegetation. Spokesman Cyrus Oguna addressed fears of laxity at Masinga airstrip in late January, while touring the affected areas of Masinga in Machakos and Mbeere in Embu county. “The chemical used to spray the locusts will be changed to a more effective one, killing the insects instantly,” Oguna said. By February 10, the locusts had invaded 17 counties. These include Mandera, Wajir, Marsabit, Garissa, Baringo, Isiolo, Laikipia, Meru, Samburu, Kitui, Embu, Machakos, Makueni, Tharaka Nithi, Kajiado, Muranga and Turkana. Oguna said spraying of the locusts is ongoing, and the government has so far dispatched nine jets, which are undertaking the exercise. He said five jets are being used for aerial spraying and four for gathering coordinates and locations where the insects have been sighted. However, the spokesman disputed claims the pesticide being used might be harmful to humans, saying thorough testing has so far been done to ascertain the ability to kill locusts without affecting residents. He said the government will support farmers whose crops have been destroyed by the locusts. “The government will first ensure there is plenty of food before issuing money to farmers who will be highly affected so the money issued will buy the food,” Oguna said. Agriculture CS Peter Munya said on January 27 the control process has been slowed down due to various reasons. He said heavy rains being experienced in some parts of the country are slowing down the attempts to contain the desert locusts. “The rain is washing away the pesticides that is being sprayed and this is slowing down our efforts,” the CS said. "We have also been experiencing delays and shortage of the chemicals, which are not found locally and are imported from Japan. The logistics involved have been difficult but the President has given a go-ahead for us to order direct purchase from the Japan government. “We anticipate the earliest we can be able to solve the problem will be in six months.”