Kirinyaga legislators accompanying Deputy President William Ruto in a church were barred from speaking to avoid politics where Ruto also avoided rhetoric, dwelling on development. The ten Members of Parliament who support Dr Ruto attended the ceremony in which Kerugoya Anglican Church Cathedral was being consecrated by the church’s boss Jackson Ole Sapit in Kerugoya Town where The DP attended and accompanied by them. Archbishop Ole Sapit gave instructions that the Members of Parliament would not be allowed to address the congregation, since the Church was a place of worship and political politics would not be allowed. Thus only Kirinyaga Woman Representative Wangui Ngirici  was asked to recognize her colleagues by mentioning their names and the constituencies they represent. Among those who attended the function were Munene Wambugu(Kirinyaga Central), Gichimu Githinji (Gichugu),Ndindi Nyoro(Kiharu) and Alice Wahome ( Kandara). When he rose to speak Ruto yesterday called on politicians to unite for the sake of development arguing that by working as a team they will be able to tackle challenges affecting development. He further urged the leaders to rally behind President Uhuru Kenyatta noting that the president was working tirelessly to ensure peace prevails in the country and that he was keen in ensuring there was development in all parts of Kenya. Ruto said the Head of State needed blessings of all Kenyans to be able to deliver on his mandate urging the church to pray for the President and the country for peace and developments. The Deputy President continues praising  former president the Late Daniel Arap Moi describing him as statesman who will not be forgotten noting that Moi’si family members were mourning and needed much prayers more than anything else. “President Moi strived to unite the nation and he deserves to be honored and as we mourn the fallen second President of our country, let us seek divine intervention for the bereaved family," he said. The Archbishop called on the government to eliminate locusts which have invaded eleven counties saying they were a great hazard to the country. He noted that locusts could easily cause famine and the problem should be addressed. The church primate promised that the church will continue supplementing government’s efforts in building schools and hospital for the betterment of all people. Noting that church has sponsored many schools and built hospitals, he added that churches are partners with the government in development. He was categorical that the Church was also assertively focusing on development to empower Kenyans financially so that they can be able to live comfortably.