The slow and complex process of procuring effective chemicals and overreliance on development partners have hampered the ongoing efforts to fight locust invasion. Agriculture CS Peter Munya said his ministry has had to rely on the Food and Agriculture Organisation to provide resources and acquire the chemical after it depleted the Sh230 million set aside by the Treasury to eradicate the pests. Munya, who appeared before the Senate Agriculture committee over the crisis, said the situation has been complicated by the fact that the only effective chemicals can only be procured from either Japan or Australia. "We have a serious challenge with the availability of chemicals. Effective chemicals are not locally available. We rely on the private sector, which sometimes lies to you,” Munya said on Wednesday. The CS lamented that FAO, a United Nations agency, has been slow in procuring and importing the chemical – Fenitrothion 96 ULV, a control pesticide. "We have even tried to engage the government of Australia so we can procure government to government, but they have said they don’t want to get involved in private affairs," he said. Currently, the CS disclosed, an order of 100,000 litres from Australia has yet to reach the country more than two weeks after the government asked FAO to procure the chemical. Further, the CS disclosed that logistical challenges in distribution, large volumes of fuel needed for aircraft to spay the vast areas, limited technical capacity of the extension officers, high rate of spread of the insects and inadequate aircraft have slowed down the fight. He added that inadequate personnel and equipment for ground control and inadequate funds for the upkeep of the trained personnel to spray the insects have also hampered the exercise. Munya told the committee led by Embu Senator Njeru Ndwiga that containing the insects has proved costly, with the government spending Sh230 million in one month. "The money given by the Treasury was Sh230 million, which is now depleted. We are now depending on development partners who are giving us equipment and the chemicals we require," he said. According to the CS, spraying a small swarm of the desert locusts — of about 40 million insects — requires about 300 litres. A litre of the chemical costs Sh10,000. So far, 28,000 litres of the control pesticides have been procured and distributed for use in the affected counties. Munya admitted that the government was slow to respond to the invasion, leading to the current disaster but reiterated that the fight has been scaled up. The locusts have invaded 18 countries since December 28 last year when they first crossed the border from the neighbouring countries. The CS said aircraft will be increased to 20. Currently, they are nine: five for spraying and four for surveillance. The state, through the partners, is also procuring 20 more vehicles fitted with sprayers to add to the current six to spray the insects. Further, the ministry, through FAO and other partners, has trained 500 National Youth Service officers for ground spraying. Locust control and coordinating centres have been set up at Kilimo House and in six other regions across the country to better deal with the problem. “We are on the right truck in terms of containing the problem. There is no quick fix. We have dealt with the swarm and what remains are the mature remnants we are now dealing with. We are also spraying the hoppers so they do not mature,” he added. Munya told the senators that they hope to eradicate the insects by June before they embark on a long-term measure to deal with future invasions. He said the government has engaged consultants to carry out research on the extent of damage caused. Upon completion of the exercise, the state will "restore" the livelihoods of Kenyans whose crops have been destroyed.