The Building Bridges Initiative steering committee has said it will accept resolutions submitted to them at BBI rallies organised by various political groups. Joint Secretary to the task force Paul Mwangi, however, said such resolutions must have originated from delegates meetings convened before political rallies are held. Mwangi said the committee has been sending experts to regional meetings convened by allies of President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM chief Raila Odinga to collect the public views. He said the committee sent its experts to BBI meetings in Kisii, Kakamega and Mombasa and would continue dispatching more to other coming regional events including Kitui and Wote. The lawyer said the purpose of sending the committee's teams of experts to such events is to attend the delegates' meetings that precede the rallies to listen to suggestions and responses from the public on the BBI proposals. He said the experts' work also involves guiding participants of the delegates' meetings to ensure the process of collecting the views is "credible and acceptable". "We have been sending our technical experts each forum where we have been invited to ensure that the results of such engagements are products that can be acceptable to use," he told the Star in a phone interview. Mwangi said the experts are, however, not allowed to attend the actual rallies on behalf of the BBI task force unless invited to pick resolutions in public. "In cases where we have been invited to collect the resolutions during the rallies like in Kisii and Kakamega we have done so," he said. "We are not part of the public rallies you are witnessing. Our work ends in the delegates' meetings which we attend." With Mwangi saying his team had been invited by the  Uhuru-Raila led brigade to their rallies, Deputy President William Ruto's allies who have planned parallel rallies will also have to officially invite the task force if they want their views captured. The reports that the ongoing BBI meetings are part of the task force's plan to collect public views on their proposals mean that the Yusuf Haji-led team may not have an elaborate plan to traverse the whole country once again. In the first round, the committee went around the country and visited each county to collect public views on the problems facing the country under the handshake agenda of uniting the nation. Pressed if the BBI team would end their work with only meeting delegates ferried by politicians prior to political rallies, Mwangi said they will unveil a calendar to accommodate other groups. "We are aware that there are people who would have different viewpoints. We are going to have different forums for those with different viewpoints and who would want to oppose to present their views," he said. DP Ruto has publicly protested that the BBI team cannot collect structured views from public rallies saying the panel should release its programme so that Kenyans can present their views. “I’ve talked to Yusuf Haji and told him when they begin their hearings, I’ll go to present my views,” Ruto said on January 24 during an interview on NTV. He has previously said the ongoing BBI rallies are a waste of public resources. Edited by R.Wamochie