Despite opening a four-point gap at the top of the Kenyan Premier League, Gor Mahia head coach Steven Polack maintains that they are not the 2019-2020 champions in waiting. Gor thrashed Nzoia Sugar 3-0 yesterday at the Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos to pull away from the chasing pack and could widen the rift further should they win their match in hand. Ugandan forward Juma Balinya, who was making his debut after switching from record Tanzanian champions Yanga, helped himself to a brace with skipper Kenneth Muguna netting the third. Polack insists that the title is not theirs to lose and instead wants his players to continue exerting the one-match-at-a-time approach until the final round. "We cannot see ourselves as champions in waiting since there are more than 50 points to be fought for. We will continue taking each match at a time. We played well in either half even though we would have won by a bigger margin. I am happy that Balinya hit the ground running on his debut," said Polack. Nzoia coach Collins Omondi rued inexperience in his side and expressed fears over their possibility to survive relegation. "The difference between us and Gor was experience. We created chances but our decision making upfront was wanting. It is worrying that we slumped deeper into relegation but we will take every match as a final," said Omondi. Earlier at the same venue, Sofapaka stretched their winless run to three matches after coming from a goal down to hold Mathare United to a one-all draw. Mathare had taken the lead through South Sudan forward Dani Lual but Sofapaka replied through their Ghanaian Jedinak Ameyaw. Both goals came in the second half. Sofapaka coach John Baraza was full of praise for Ameyaw who has found the back of the net twice in as many matches. "He is young and proven himself to be a reliable goal scorer. So far so good for me and we hope he will keep the fire burning," said Baraza. Similarly, Mathare's tactician Salim Ali heaped praise on Lual whose goal saw him take his tally to two from an equal number of matches. "He is adapting well in the league and I challenge him to remain consistent in the subsequent matches. Sofapaka are always a tough opponent but we would have won the match were it not for a lapse in concentration," said Ali. Elsewhere, Kariobangi Sharks eased their relegation fears with a huge win, mauling Kisumu All Stars 8-1 at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani. The duo of Peter Lwasa and Patrick Otieno scored braces with Samuel Olwande, Kevintom Machika, Kuol Chol and Patila Omoto were also on the score sheet. Dismas Amunga scored All Stars' lone goal. AFC Leopards ended Ulinzi Stars 14 match unbeaten run with 1-0 win at the Afraha Stadium. Elvis Rupia struck at the death to disarm the soldiers, a goal that saw him open his goal account with Ingwe after switching from Wazito on Friday. Derrick Otanga put the ball past the line in the dying minutes to help Wazito force a 1-1 draw with Kakamega Homeboyz at the Bukhungu Stadium. Christopher Masinza was on target for the hosts.