Nairobi MCAs — known for factionalism, infighting, backstabbing and throwing punches — meekly took the blame on Wednesday for the mess that is Nairobi and its takeover by the state. Without fighting supremacy battles and storming the speaker's office to get rid of her, what's left for 122 legislatorsto do? They could take care of their own constituents, of course. All eyes will be on them next week when they debate a motion to impeach Governor Mike Sonko for numerous alleged failings and malpractices. He and others also face Sh357 million graft charges involving garbage collection tenders. The MCAs said they failed in their oversight job, leading to the crumbling and stalling of services, necessitating the national government to step in and run the capital. The admission came after assembly speaker Beatrice Elachi tabled an agreement signed by Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko and Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa in which the county transferred vital functions to the national government. On Tuesday, there was confusion after Sonko surrendered four critical functions—  health, transport, public works and planning services — at a ceremony presided over by President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House. During debate on a motion of privilege tabled by Majority Whip June Ndegwa on Wednesday, the MCAs said they had been asleep on the job and should have better performed their oversight role. Umoja One MCA Mark Mugambi said the assembly has constantly displayed its factions instead of being united and acting in the best interests of the capital. They are to blame, he said, for losing key functions to the state. "We have demonstrated that we cannot be united as a house. This is a shame, and we have ourselves to blame," he said. Mugambi said since November 2017, he has unsuccessfully been requesting a kamkunji for all elected members. "All elected leaders are a letdown because we ought to have shown the way when the lights started dimming at City Hall. If we get re-elected in 2022, it will be a miracle because we have delivered nothing for our people," he said. Kahawa West MCA Anthony Gatune welcomed the takeover, saying MCAs were "blinded by handouts",  but did not elaborate. He said the action by the head of state should serve as a warning. "I stand with my party leader in this decision. This is a warning of what more can be done if elected leaders fail to make the right decisions," he said. Getune said, "We have been lamenting day in, day out about declining revenue since we started the second assembly. The money collected keeps on vanishing, yet people are fed 30-20-10 as handouts. Quick to receive but don't bother asking why the money collected is lower than expected," he said. Data from the City Hall reveals that from July 2019 to January 2020, only Sh3.9 billion was collected. The county has set a target of Sh17 billion for this year. Minority leader David Mberia called for the dissolution of the county government, saying the majority of MCAs had turned into sycophants and beneficiaries of handouts. "To teach the sycophants a hard lesson, this county government needs to be dissolved. They need to know that instead of trooping to the governor’s office for handouts they should have been working to serve their true boss, the city residents,” he said. Nominated MCA Mary Arivitsa who also supports the takeover, asked her colleagues to wake up and do what is right for the people. "I stand as a disappointed member of this house. It didn't have to take Uhuru to do what he did, but we gave him no choice. We really need to reflect on what is currently going on in the county," she said. Arivitsa said that if the President could invoke Article 181 of the Constitution, nothing would hold him back from invoking Article 192 on suspension of a county government. Utawala MCA Patrick Karani said Uhuru has kept his word that Nairobi would be part of his legacy. "The President said he wanted change, but two years down the line we have shown nothing as the status quo has remained. " All eyes will be on the MCAs next week as they debate Sonko's impeachment motion. Sonko has been given until Monday to present his written responses to the allegations levelled against him. He is accused of gross violations of the Constitution and Public Finance Act, incompetence and inability to lead, failing to name a deputy governor and failure to manage debt and pay expenses. Sonko was last December charged with corruption and abuse of office in the loss of Sh357 million and subsequently blocked from accessing his City Hall office.