Land, education and security are the issues leaders and residents of the Northeastern region want to be addressed through the Building Bridges Initiative. These recommendations were read out by Mandera Governor Ali Roba during the BBI popularisation rally held in Garissa on Sunday. The residents want a County Policing Authority, with its police service, be established and run by the devolved governments. They also want the government to put in measures to counter radicalisation in the counties. The residents want more cooperation between the two levels of government in counter-terrorism activities. The region has borne the brunt of al Shabaab attacks since 2011. It has been grappling with how best to deal with the ragtag militia and reduce casualties from attacks. Return the teachers Residents recommended that infrastructure development for primary and secondary schools and teacher management should be devolved. This proposal follows the recent withdrawal of close to 3,000 non-local teachers by the Teachers Service Commission. Leaders from the region claimed that the decision to transfer tutors was unilaterally reached by their employer without considering the effect it will have on the learners. They promised that during the next recruitment for the region, they will not allow any non-local teachers to be shortlisted for interviews. Those seeking jobs in Northeastern use the region to get employment only to abandon them midway, they said. Register community land Residents recommended that the government should register all community land before any large scale compulsory acquisitions. They also proposed that any prospecting and exploitation of resources on, under and above the surface of public land be carried out in cooperation with county governments and communities that have customary ownership. The residents also want term limits for governors to be removed and allow voters to decide by popular vote. But experts said that was a fall back plan for governors who have been pushing for regional government, which has been opposed in some quarters. The regional leaders said that all counties should be connected to the national electricity grid to provide a level playing field for growth and development. In Northeastern, it is only Garissa which is connected to the national grid. Economic stimulus They also recommended that the national government should provide an economic stimulus fund for the key growth sectors. These include livestock, agriculture, climate change, infrastructure, natural resources development transport, cottage industries among others. The fund would spur investments in the sectors and create employment for improved livelihoods and equity in the north. Leaders proposed that all existing electoral boundaries (47 counties, 290 constituencies and 1450 wards) remain as they are. Results from the 2019 census showed that some of the electoral areas did not meet the quota and risk being scrapped or have their boundaries redrawn. National Assembly majority leader Aden Duale had said earlier that they will not entertain any move to have the existing seats scraped because of their population. Duale said other than population, landmass should also be considered. Residents want the government to fully implement the Truth Justice and Reconciliation Commission (TJRC) and Ndung’u Land reports. Governor Mohmed Abdi said that it was important that historical injustices be addressed conclusively. He said that victims of the Wagalla massacre in Wajir, the Malkamari massacre in Mandera and the burning of Garissa town are yet to get justice. “We must seek the best way to have a national conversation on historical injustices to allow for healing and compensation for the victims. “This is a matter that we cannot continue wishing away. It is haunting the leadership of the region to date,” he said. They also recommended that the government fast-tracks all ongoing infrastructural developments projects. The construction of the 740km Isiolo-Mandera Road should be completed. The leaders described the project as the most important life-transforming investment that can end the complaints of marginalisation. The road will bring down the cost of living in the region and connect it to the rest of Kenya. In the livestock sector, residents want the government to establish a holding ground or disease-free livestock zone to act as export quality control centre at the Port of Lamu. Raila's promise The five-page document was handed over to ODM party leader Raila Odinga who has been leading the popularisation campaign rallies. Raila promised the residents from Northeastern that their recommendations will be well captured in the final document. The BBI will ensure that the region, just like any other part of the country, receives its fair share of resources. The meeting was attended by governors Ali Korane (Garissa) and Mohamed Abdi (Wajir), Senator Yussuf Haji who is also the co-chair of the BBI task force, MPs, MCAs and other opinion leaders. National Assembly majority leader and Garissa Township MP Aden Duale did not attend. In snubbing the forum, he made good his threat of absconding the rally he has termed as a source of ‘confusion and division’. 