Just like in other parts of the country, late President arap Daniel Moi initiated iconic projects at the Coast. In Taita Taveta country, they Moi County Referral Hospital, Moi stadium and Moi Boys High School Kasighau. Others are the Mwatate-Wundanyi road and Voi-Taveta road. Supreme Council of Kenyan Muslim (Supkem) deputy secretary and a resident of Taita Taveta Mohammed Washala said the second president was generous and development oriented. "Moi was quick to realise the needs of this region. When he came to Voi in 1989, he launched the construction of Moi stadium. To date, the stadium is the sole playing ground within Voi town,” he said. During the same year, Washala said Moi changed Voi District Hospital to Moi hospital as a way of stamping authority and maintaining ground popularity. "By then, the Voi municipal council was dominated by councilors from the ruling party. Due to the pressure from opposition, Moi had to brand himself at grass roots level," he added. Duncan Mwanyumba, an advocate of the High Court, paints Moi as a leader whose priority was to propel education to highest levels. He remembers how Moi initiated the establishment of Moi Secondary School, now Moi Boys High School Kasighau in 1988. The Anglican Church boarding school was set in a mission to be the centre of academic excellence in the region. Located at the foot of the 300ft Kasighau hill is near the Kasighau conservancy. "Moi brought alot of goodies to this region especially during the reign of former Voi MP, the late Eliud Mwamunga. He shall remain a hero," Mwanyumba said. Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja said he received the news of the passing on of the second President with sadness. "Mzee Moi will be remembered for his leadership, wisdom and his characteristic clarion call of peace, love and unity," he said in a statement to newsrooms on Tuesday morning. Former Mombasa mayor Ahmed Mohdhar said the late former President was instrumental in the shaping of the Coast region in terms of infrastructure. Mohdhar said Moi initiated and oversaw the completion of Nyali, Mtwapa and Kilifi bridges that connect Mombasa, Kilifi, Tana River and Lamu counties. "These are projects that have shaped Mombasa, Kilifi and Lamu towns significantly," Mohdhar said. He said without the bridges, the Mombasa port would not be as it is today. The Lamu port would not have been realised and Kilifi would still remain an underdeveloped town. "We would still be using the dangerous floating bridge in Mombasa and I can say there would have been major disasters there," the former mayor said. Former Mvita MP Mohamed Jahazi was too distraught to speak to the press but his son Mwinyi said Moi was instrumental in linking the North, West and South Coast. "It was during his regime that the ferries services were revamped," Mwinyi said. Umoja Summit Party of Kenya chairman Matano Chengo said it was during the Moi regime that the agricultural economy of the Coast took shape. Chengo said it was under Moi that the cashew nut, Ramisi Sugar and Bixa factories in Kilifi and Kwale counties were established. "Moi was the instigator of these factories that revamped the agricultural industries. Some other leaders however mishandled the factories and led to their collapse," said Chengo. Coast leaders have been clamouring for the revival of the industries. Former powerful minister Katana Ngala who served during Moi’s regime says Moi will be remembered for opening up the Coast region by initiating projects touching on tourism and development. “The Kilifi, Nyali, Sabaki bridges are all initiatives by Moi. He participated in schools fundraising and always preached peace, love and unity,” Ngala said. He praised him at a personal level for believing in him and allocating him several ministerial dockets. Fuad Wa Kombe, a Kanu life member and activist, said Moi supported the cashew nut project, which however collapsed.