Court of Appeal judge Kantai Ole Sankale was a long time family and business lawyer for the Cohens since the 1990s, the Star has established. Sources around the investing team say it was Kantai who helped register the late Dutch businessman's company Tobs Limited which owned the award-winning Tobs Safaris Limited. He would then serve as the company lawyer. At the inception of the company, it was exclusively co-directed by Cohen and former Siakago MP Silas Ita. When Ita died in 1999, Kantai was nominated to hold his share temporarily as a director. A special resolution signed by Cohen shows that the company's board met on April 20, 1999 and resolved to pass the share held by Kantai to Sarah Wairimu, paving the way for her to join the board. Star investigations have shown that from then, the judge remained a close friend to the Cohen family. Wairimu, the wife of Cohen, is treated as the prime suspect in his disappearance and eventual murder in August last year. DCI George Kinoti has accused the judge of coaching the murder suspect in the case after text messages extracted from their phones suggested he helped her write police statements. Kantai who was released on police bond is due in court for a murder charge on Tuesday. “We are definitely charging him with murder. We have established a prima facie case and we are sure it can stand in court,” Kinoti was quoted in media reports as saying. “It is self-telling. What we are tracing is an involvement as far as 1999. For a murder charge, what to look for is whether there is a motive. In this one, there was a motive by the judge,” he added. Kinoti suggested that with the facts of the relationship between the two out of question, it was possible that the judge had reasons to take part in killing of the businessman. Judge Kantai was arrested on Friday by DCI detectives at his Karen home  and held at DCI headquarters for the whole day as part of the probe. But a senior lawyer familiar with the case contemptuously dismissed the DCI's charge against the senior judge, saying that "only in the Islamic Republic of Iran is having an affair a criminal offence." "It is only Mrs Kantai who can complain and such complaint cannot be lodged at the DCI. She can approach the family court or council of elders," he added.