ODM leader Raila Odinga on Saturday wooed Ukambani to back the Building Bridges Initiative vouching for it as the way out of electoral violence in the country. He told residents who thronged Kitui that the BBI process is the cure to the bloody violence witnessed in the country every election cycle. In a charged meeting hosted by Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu, the ODM leader rallied the residents to back BBI for prosperity. Raila, who treated the audience to his new-found reggae rhythms,  said the initiative would herald a season of peace and tranquility “where poll winners and losers greet one another after results are declared.” “That is the meaning of handshake and foundation of BBI. We are rooting for this so that we don’t have elections where people shed blood,” he said. The AU Infrastructure envoy further took a swipe at corrupt leaders saying they were denying Kenyans an opportunity to improve their livelihoods. Raila said without corruption, it would be possible to lift more Kenyans from the bondage of poverty to become middle-level income earners. He cited China which he argued has in the past 20 years they have removed millions of people from poverty to the middle-income status. “It is possible to lift people from poverty but we can’t achieve that if loopholes still exist. Let state resources be put in a pool –CFS, where all Kenyans can get something out of it,” Raila said. In an apparent reference to DP William Ruto’s love for harambees, the ODM leader said it was regrettable that instead of money being spent to improve lives of the people, “it is carried in sacks for harambees for boda boda, chamas, and churches.” The former Prime Minister said nothing beats a united Kenya and in that regard assured Ukambani that he has not abandoned Kalonzo as was perceived. The two worked together in the 2013 and 2017 presidential race, a campaign whose ideals Raila said are captured in the BBI process. He delivered greetings from President Uhuru Kenyatta – with whom he entered into a handshake that birthed the peace initiative. Raila hailed the BBI train as the process through which Kenyans would tackle tribalism, corruption and theft in government; poverty, and unemployment. He rallied Kambas to follow in the footsteps of independence heroes Paul Ngei, Muindi Mbingu, and Syokimau. “Kambas have contributed to the country’s liberation. They must get their right in the new Kenya. We don’t want to see Kambas lose jobs because of their name.” Raila maintained that the country has sufficient resources that can feed the people if managed well. He gave a story of a man who challenged him that Kambas lack food despite being the path of two main rivers – Tana and Athi. “I told him that Kenya can be great and you don’t have to sit at the banks and weep like those who did by the Rivers of Babylon.” The ODM leader cautioned those who have not joined the BBI train that they would be left behind – locked out. The national forums started in Kisii and have been held in Kakamega and Mombasa. Meru is expected to host the next meeting followed by Narok, Nakuru, Garissa, Nyeri, and finally Nairobi. Raila arrived at the Ukambani meeting riding atop his vehicle accompanied by Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya. Leaders who spoke at the meeting vouched for the BBI process as the path to inclusivity and oneness.