  Siaya Governor Cornell Rasanga has launched 93 projects worth Sh322 million in one week a bid to address socio-economic challenges. The newly launched projects are spread across the county and cover various sectors. They were launched by Rasanga, Deputy Governor James Okumbe and respective executives. Speaking during the launch of the construction of Sh9 million Ndira box culvert and Sh3.6 million Got Abiero Borehole projects in Bondo constituency on Monday, Rasanga said the projects will end perennial water shortage and ease movement of people and goods. “We want to have all the projects carried out to completion before the end of June so that funds earmarked for their implementation are fully utilized to avert any rollovers,” Rasanga said. In Gem subcounty, Rasanga launched a Sh4 million Katoo ECD Block before commissioning Siala Kaduol maternity wing that cost another Sh4 million. The governor said he was impressed by the progress in the South Gem community where they donated and built a modern office block for chiefs and assistant chiefs. "Development is a collective responsibility and everyone must play a role however small," Rasanga said. He asked Project Management Committees and the public to ensure they provide proper oversight during the implementation process. Okumbe accompanied by some executives launched projects in Alego Usonga and Ugunja subcounties. The deputy governor assured residents that construction works will meet the required standards as promised to ensure contractors are qualified. He said there will be a competitive evaluation for the tendering process. Among the projects launched by the deputy governor were the Ambira Level 4 Hospital X-ray services that will be ready in a month. The project will cost Sh3.4 million. Okumbe also launched a box culvert worth Sh13 million at River Wuoroya in Ugunja. In Alego Usonga, Okumbe inspected the ongoing construction of the Sh4.5 million Ndayi ECDE classroom set to be completed by the end of March.  edited by p. obuya