A full in-tray awaits Members of Parliament as the House resumes sittings on Thursday after the December recess. Among the core business is the vetting of Cabinet and Principal secretaries nominated by President Uhuru Kenyatta in changes announced last month. Speaker Justin Muturi said the nominees would be vetted by House committees and reports on the same issued by February 25. Health Cabinet Secretary nominee Mutahi Kagwe and his Trade counterpart Betty Maina will be vetted by the Appointments committee. Principal Secretary nominees will be vetted by House committees whose mandates fall within the dockets of the appointees. Nominated Trade PS Johnson Weru will be vetted by the Trade committee chaired by Kieni MP Kanini Kega while TVET's Juan Ouma and his University Education and Research counterpart Simon Nabukwesi by the Education committee. The Kiambaa MP Paul Koinange-led National Security and Administration will vet Mary Kimonye following her nomination as Public Service PS. Former Privatisation Commission CEO Solomon Kitungu, who was nominated as Transport PS, will be vetted by the Transport committee chaired by Pokot South MP David Pkosing. The Lands committee chaired by Kitui South MP Raychelle Nyamai will vet Enock Momanyi for Physical Planning PS. “It is imperative that the committees embark on the vetting to enable the conclusion of the process. Let them immediately commence public hearings and report before February 25,” Muturi said. Parliament is also expected to officially receive the Draft 2020 Budget Policy Statement which sets the framework for the country’s revenue and expenditure. Key highlights of the document are budget cuts affecting Parliament and Judiciary as well as the Jubilee administration plan to achieve the Big Four agenda. Leader of Majority Aden Duale said the report must be received on Thursday lest Parliament is found in breach of constitutional deadlines. He alluded to “other matters”, without detail, that required the urgent attention of the House. During the recess, President Kenyatta sought the House’s hand in fast-tracking the Conflict of Interest Bill among other legislation which affect coffee, tea and milk farmers. Before the recess, the House was due to vote on a report in which it rescinded the nomination of Mwende Mwinzi as Seoul envoy. A number of bills that were not concluded by the time the House took the break will also be prioritised. Key among them is the Gaming Bill, 2019; Breastfeeding Bill and the Land Amendment Bill. Edited by R.Wamochie