   Opposition leader Raila Odinga arrived at Parliament Buildings at exactly 2.20pm clad in a blue checked suit, pink shirt, flowery tie, brown shoes and white cowboy hat. On his side were his wife Ida and son Raila Jnr closely followed by a retinue of opposition legislators. They had come to mourn and view the body of retired President Daniel Moi ahead of his burial on Wednesday. The occasion was reminiscent of how his father, the late Jaramogi Oginga Odinga, mourned the founding father of the nation, Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, in 1978. All activities stood still when the former Prime Minister arrived. His mourning was heavily laden with Luo traditions. He ceremoniously pulled out his black flywhisk, removed his cowboy hat and looked at the body for a few seconds before waving the flywhisk in slow motion six times over the body. This signified great honour, the Luo traditional way. Unlike his father in 1978, Raila did not break into a traditional chant. Neither was he in leopard skin. His style of mourning is only accorded to great men in the society –  the calibre of a king in Luo tradition. The black fly whisk is traditionally called orengo. The totem is highly regarded by the Luo. It is not carried by any ordinary person as it is a symbol of power. Luo Council of Elders chairperson Willis Otondi said the whisk is given to selected elders in the community. “When he raises the orengo, at a funeral, it is a symbol of peace. He calls for calmness and peace,” Otondi said. According to Charles Ong'ondo the orengo is a status symbol and only a certain cadre of elders are allowed to carry it. “It is believed to have some magical power that is transferred to whoever inherits it,” he said. When it is lifted, like Raila did while viewing Moi's body, it shows respect from the entire generation. It was not the first time Raila mourned a leader in the Luo traditional way. He did the same for Vice-President Kijana Wamalwa in 2003 and  Homa Bay Senator Otieno Kajwang’ in 2014. In 2003, he arrived in Kitale in Luo regalia and raced around the Kitale ASK stadium armed with a spear while engaging in a mock fight with the spirits of death. After paying his last respect to Moi yesterday, Raila condoled with the Moi family led by Rongai MP Raymond Moi and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi in a separate room. He described Moi as a freedom fighter who, alongside Jaramogi, served as the first Africans in Legco. “On behalf of the family of Jaramogi Oginga Odinga we would like to convey our heartfelt condolences at the loss of Mzee,” he told the family. “Mzee has lived a full life; he has travelled a long journey and taught many people different things.” Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka had in the morning led Wiper MPs in condoling with the Moi family. “The whole continent is mourning with Kenyans. He worked hard to see that there was peace in Somalia and South Sudan,” he said. Kalonzo added after viewing the body that Moi played a key role in the establishment of the East African Community. “We should integrate the region even more. He left behind a functioning East Africa Community which we must entrench." He recalled that Moi handled the 1982 coup well "since the country could not have gone through what the majority of West African countries have gone through". "This country has never seen a military government. Almost the whole of the West African region has had problems because of military coups," Kalonzo said. He said Moi touched many lives as manifested in the messages of condolences from local and international leaders. The former Vice-President was accompanied by his son – East African Legislative Assembly MP Kennedy Musyoka – and Ukambani Wiper leaders. Voice of Salvation and Healing Church Archbishop Winnie Owitti recalled a case in 1984 when Moi ordered a chartered plane to airlift her husband, the late Archbishop Silas Owitti to hospital. The cleric had been involved in a road accident that killed his first wife. “The accident left my late husband half-dead and he was rushed to a hospital in Kisumu. The following day, we were all surprised that President Moi had chartered a plane to fly Owitti to Nairobi and he (Moi) catered for all his hospital bills.” On Monday, thousands of Kenyans thronged Parliament to pay their last respects to the former President whose body lay in state for the third and final day as per President Uhuru Kenyatta's proclamation. The organisers had to extend the viewing time by an hour to 6pm to allow more Kenyans who had been queuing to view the body. Today, there will be a national memorial service at Nyayo Stadium. At least 10 heads of state are expected to attend. There will be a service at Kabarak University tomorrow at 9am followed by a private burial at Moi's Kabarak home in the afternoon. 