Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua on Friday urged the government to prohibit all incoming flights from China and turn back all passengers from China on any airline. In other words, virtual lockdown of Kenyan airspace to prevent the coronavirus from entering. This prohibition, she says, is the only reasonable precaution from exposure to coronavirus infections in the country. She was addressing a press conference on Friday at the Narc Kenya offices. Karua has expressed her disappointment in the "recklessness" shown by the government in not protecting Kenyans from the virus and allowing an airline to fly in 239 passengers from China. She referred to the China Southern Airlines Flight that touched down on Wednesday with 239 passengers on board — 198 Chinese nationals, 30 on transit and the rest crew members. The travellers were screened and released to self-quarantine in their own homes. Karua said the government does not show any evidence of preparedness in case of an outbreak. "The government advisory for the 239 passengers who jetted into the country to 'self-quarantine' for 14 days is as laughable as it is tragic," she said. The former Justice minister said again that mandatory quarantine facilities be established at all international border points. She said the State is failing all the Kenyans stranded in Wuhan China by declining to bring them home yet keeping airspaces open for others. "We urge the government to organise and finance the immediate evacuation of Kenyans stranded in China and hold them in the suggested quarantine centres within the homeland until cleared," she said. On Thursday, a section of MPs also demanded that all the Chinese airlines be suspended from landing at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. Led by Minority leader John Mbadi, the MPs said it was a careless move for those responsible to have cleared a Chinese airliner on Kenyan soil despite the scare of the coronavirus outbreak. Mbadi said it was laughable that the Health ministry cleared all the 239 passengers and asked them to 'self-quarantine' without proper monitoring mechanisms. (Edited by V. Graham)