The Lake Victoria Basin Commission has launched a Sh30 billion programme to clean Lake Victoria. The commission is an organ of the East African Community (EAC) and its move comes amid concerns over increased cases of pollution and discharge of raw sewage and industrial waste into the lake. The Integrated Water Resources Management Programme launched last week in Kisumu will be implemented by the LVBC in Kampala, Uganda; Mwanza, Tanzania; Kigali, Rwanda; and Kisumu, Kenya. The clean-up is financed by the Federal Republic of Germany through KFW, its state-owned development bank, and co-financed by the European Union. It will last until February 2023. The project is expected to significantly improve water quality in the entire Lake Victoria Basin and set new benchmarks in relation to existing discharge regulations and practice. Speaking during the launch, LVBC executive secretary Said Matano said the basin faces the greatest threat ever. “We are witnessing serious degradation of biodiversity, increased pollution, serious atmospheric deposition of phosphorus and nitrogen, invasive weeds, alga blooms, destruction of wetlands, and climate change risks, amongst other problems,” he said. He called for an integrated and multi-sectoral approach to fixing the threats to the transboundary ecosystem, which supports the lives of more than 45 million people. To ‘jump-start’ pollution reduction, four high priority investment projects have been initially identified and are currently being prepared, Matano said. In Kisumu, it will help reduce untreated sewage from Manyatta slum into Kisat River. In Mwanza, the project aims to connect 7,400 households to Mwanza wastewater stabilisation ponds. Uganda’s project — an artificial wetland in Nakivubo suburb — will filter water flowing into Lake Victoria. Rwanda’s Faecal Sludge Treatment project will improve its sanitation and sustainable environmental interventions. “With the ongoing discussion and direction given by the countries in just concluded regional policy steering committee, we expect to have the same in Burundi to ensure an all-inclusive ecosystem approach,” Matano said. EAC secretary general Liberat Mfumukeko stressed that environmental conservation is one of their key pillars, hence the programme will go a long way in helping achieve the objective. “We are all aware water is a very important resource that directly contributes to the livelihoods of millions of EAC residents. This programme is, therefore, very timely in helping us champion the conversation and management of Lake Victoria basin,” he said. As the implementation commences, Mfumukeko reiterated the EAC’s commitment to the sustainable and efficient use and management of the environment and natural resources for the prosperity of future generations. Kenya’s Environment principal secretary Chris Kiptoo said the project will enhance the capacity of the LVBC to protect the massive water body. The meeting was attended by principal/permanent secretaries from Kenya Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, Tanzania and European Union officials, amongst other stakeholders.