 Joseph Irungu, alias Jowie, on Thursday sighed in relief after he was released from prison remand on bail. Jowie, a murder suspect, had been in custody for 16 months. He was in 2018, alongside journalist Jacque Maribe, charged with the murder of businesswoman Monica Kimani. Judge James Wakiaga gave Jowie Sh2 million bail or a bond of Sh3 million. He found no compelling reasons to deny him bail since the circumstances of the case had changed since witnesses under witness protection had testified. The judge ruled: “What should be considered when it comes to bail is the strength of the prosecution’s case but it’s not a ground to deny the accused bail.” Wakiaga also noted that Jowie had demonstrated that he will attend all the court hearings. The judge, however, warned the accused against commenting on the case on social media or any other platform. He should also report to the area chief every end month and the chief is expected to file a monthly report in court. Jowie will be staying with his parents in Nakuru until the case is heard and determined. Jowie had in the past twice failed to secure bail. His father had told the court in an affidavit that he will be responsible for his son and ensure that he attends court hearings. The parents said they own a poultry farm and that Jowie would be running it in the course of the hearing. He had previously been denied bail on grounds that he would interfere with the witnesses. Maribe was released in October 2018 two months after the arrest. The judge was of the view that Jowie was a flight risk and was likely to intimidate potential witnesses. The judge had referred to him as a "woman eater" because he did not have a fixed abode or a place to call home. The second bail application review was in May last year. Judge Wakiaga at the time ruled that the application was premature and the reasons the accused gave were not enough to warrant his release on bail. Last November, Jowie made a third attempt which was successful yesterday. Maribe and Jowie are charged with killing Kimani on September 19, 2018, at Lamuria Apartments in Kilimani. The hearing of the case is at an advanced stage with only seven witnesses out of 33 yet to testify.    