The Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) has been urged to investigate and arrest officials connected with the razing down of three county finance department offices. Three county governments in Nyanza have had their finance departments burnt in unclear circumstances in the last five years. They include Kisumu, Migori and Homa Bay counties. The fires destroyed financial documents and property worth millions of shillings. What caused the fires has not been established. But on Friday, the Senate Public Accounts and Investment Committee chairman Moses Kajwang’ and former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwang'a called for arrest of the perpetrators. Speaking at St Joseph’s Combined Academy in Oyugis town during inauguration of a cluster for an education programme dubbed  Connecting Classrooms, undertaken by the British Council and the Department for International Development (DFID), Kajwang’ said they  suspect the fires are caused intentionally. The Homa Bay senator argued that the fires have never spread and interfered with governor’s offices despite their proximity. Kajwang said the fires could be caused by county officials to destroy evidence. “We urge the police to quickly investigate and charge the people behind these fires before it becomes a habit. People shouldn’t run away from accountability by interfering with evidence,” Kajwang’ said. Kisumu’s finance department offices got burnt two weeks ago while Homa Bay’s were razed after 2017 general election. In Siaya County, some people stormed finance offices, stole crucial documents and destroyed computers ahead of 2017 general poll. The PAIC chairman said they suspect the fires might have been caused by people who wanted to do away with audit queries raised by the Auditor General. “The fires might have been a ploy by some county officials to interfere with queries which office of auditor general may raise on financial misappropriation. We would want to know the truth,” Kajwang’ said. Magwang'a said causes of the fires should be unearthed so that perpetrators are arrested and charged. The former legislator said security personnel should deal with people found misappropriating public funds. “People who burn finance department offices destroy public resources. They should be arrested and charged,” Magwang'a said. He urged elected leaders who are managing public funds to utilise the funds appropriately to enhance public delivery to the common man. “What is important is delivering services to the people. Let our elected demonstrate proper financial management to transform life of the common man,” Magwang'a added.