The High Court has declined an application by the East African Breweries Ltd to dismiss a suit by six distributors who are contesting the engraving of the 500ml Beer bottles with EABL initials. EABL, through lawyer Kamau Karori, had asked the court to dismiss the case saying that a similar matter raising the same issues was pending before another judge. This is in reference to Case 88 of 2016 in which Keroche Breweries petitioned the court to stop EABL and Kenya Breweries Ltd from embossing the 500ml brown beer bottles commonly referred to as Euro bottles with EABL initials. The suit between EABL and Keroche Breweries over the 500ml Euro bottle will be heard on March 10, 2020. Keroche accused EABL of using their dominant position to engage in restrictive trade practices in contravention of the Competitions Act. The distributors accuse EABL of working to drive them out of business by embossing beer bottles that have the universal shape with unique initials to prevent rivals from using them. The six distributors are Alexander Mugo, Jacob Wamiti, Phasty Wachira, Samuel Kamau, Catherine Wanjiru and Herman Mwaura. Justice Grace Nzioki of the Milimani Commercial Division declined to strike out the distributor’s case terming such a move as “draconian”. Justice Nzioki ruled it is the right of the distributors to seek justice. She agreed that the application by the distributors raised the same issues as Keroche Breweries and ordered for the two matters to be enjoined. Justice Nzioki also ruled defective an application by EABL seeking to censure media on the coverage of the matter. She advised EABL to sue independently whoever they feel has prejudiced the case. The contest between Keroche Breweries and EABL over the use of the 500ml brown beer bottles has elicited heated controversy drawing the involvement of different stockholders. On January 8, 2020, the Council of County Bar Owners threatened to stage a nationwide protect against East African Breweries and Keroche Breweries unless the two resolved the Euro bottle controversy. The bar owners said both Keroche and EABL had no right to claim ownership of the euro bottles since the containers existed before both companies were established in Kenya. They decried the crackdown that has accompanied the row on bottles saying it was leading to harassment of bar owners. On January 15, 2020, Lois Munzi, a bar owner in Kajiado, successfully petitioned the High Court to stop her prosecution on the charge of using EABL engraved Euro bottles at her Arusha Bar and Plan B Bar in Ilbissil town within Kajiado County. Justice D.K. Kemei, sitting at the High Court in Machakos, gave an order of prohibition barring the police or any other person from arraigning, charging or prosecuting Munzi in relation to the use or possession of the 500Ml Euro bottle design bottle that is at the centre of an East African Breweries and Keroche Breweries contest. In her petition to the High Court, Munzi claimed the marking of the bottles by EABL was being used to discourage bar owners from stocking competitors’ products. The matter was referred to Justice Chacha on February 4, 2020, for further directions.