Ukambani residents want the expansive Kitui county split into two, giving birth to Mwingi county for better services. The proposal was contained in a memorandum to the Building Bridges Initiative task force read out at the Kitui Stadium BBI rally on Saturday by Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana. The memorandum was given to BBI task force member Rose Museo. It envisages the creation of a Mwingi county that will benefit from more state resources and services. Further, it was proposed that mineral resources in the region be exploited and processed locally and value addition ben ensured so residents reap optimum benefits. “The enormous mineral wealth —iron ore, lime, coal, gemstones and other minerals— found in the region be sustainably exploited, and value addition mechanisms established within the region,” Kibwana said. He proposed that the massive limestone deposits in the lower eastern region be processed within the region. He said Konzo techno-city in the area should be fast-tracked. “Konza techno-city will be fully operational to create jobs and an environment for digital innovation for many unemployed people within the region and beyond,” Kibana said. Governor Kibwanasaid residents had proposed speeding up plans to located the Kenya Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, the digital media city and the national data centre at in Konza. He residents also want the region to be earmarked for industrialisation due to the availability of land, conducive weather for solar energy production and proximity to the capital city. The standard gauge railway and the Nairobi-Mombasa Highway pass through it. residents also proposed an increase in domestic, livestock and irrigation water coverage — currently less than  40 per cent — to spur socio-economic transformation. Residents also want completion of stalled projects such as the Grand Falls Dam, Thwake Dam and Wikithuki Irrigation Scheme, the Wote Leather factory and Makueni government residential houses. Kibwana said residents also proposed an increase in electricity connectivity to cover the entire Ukambani region, considering that more than 60 per cent of Kenyan’s hydro-power production is from the region. (Edited by V. Graham)