The Building Bridges Initiative task force has announced the postponement of all consultative forums to allow the country to mourn the passing on of retired President Daniel Moi. “The steering Committee on the implementation of the Building Bridges to a united Kenya task force report wishes to announce the postponement of the scheduled public engagements which had been advertised. This is in honour of the late former president of the republic of Kenya his Excellency Daniel Toroitich Arap Moi,” a statement signed by joint secretary Paul Mwangi said on Tuesday. He said new dates for the rallies will be announced in the coming days. Earlier, Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen said the Tangatanga brigade had suspended all the planned rallies. “Following the passing on of HE President Daniel T. Arap Moi all BBI rallies have been postponed. Consequently, the Nakuru rally which was planned for February 8 2020 has been rescheduled to a future date to be communicated in due course,” he tweeted. Makueni county was expected to host a rally on Saturday, while Nakuru was to host on Sunday at the Afraha Stadium. Last week, drama unfolded in Kitui as Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria and Murkomen were roughed up by youth during the BBI rally. While eulogising Moi, Deputy President William Ruto said he played a key role to reforms that birthed multiparty democracy. "He submitted himself to presidential limits and entered retirement gracefully. This is an undeniable legacy of success against daunting odds,’ Ruto said. “I would urge our youth to rise up to the responsibility of serious nation-building to take Kenya forward. Let us all learn from the ways of Mzee Moi. It is sad to say goodbye but let us rejoice for what he did,” he said. Moi died peacefully on Tuesday at 5.20 am at the Nairobi Hospital where he had been receiving treatment. President Kenyatta issued a presidential proclamation on Tuesday announcing the passing on of the retired President. Mzee Moi died at the age of 95.