Fly-half Sammy Oliech and forward Oscar Ouma made a return to the Shujaa team ahead of Los Angeles and Vancouver Sevens legs after nearly one and a half-season out. The two senior players were part of the dreaded 2018 squad which amassed a century points under the tutelage of former Kenyan international Innocent Simiyu. The duo gave last season a wide berth as senior players opted to stay out, thanks to a contractual standoff pitting them against the union. Ouma skippered the 2018 squad but was dropped in the final four legs. He last featured for Shujaa at the Commonwealth Games held in Gold Coast, Australia in the month of April the same year While naming the squad for the two tournaments, coach Paul Feeney made five changes—three of which were informed by injuries. However, it was the return of the two players whose experience will be highly relied on in edging out Pool B favourites South Africa, Canada and Ireland in Los Angeles between February 29 to March 1 at the Dignity Health Sports Park “It is exciting to have Ouma and Oliech back in the squad. We are looking forward to the next leg and it will be interesting to have the players back as they will help in positional changes we are planning to make in the forward,” he said Besides  Ouma and Oliech, Feeney named the trio of winger Jacob Ojee, Kabras forward Dan Sikuta and centre Oscar ‘Odiero’ Dennis who have since recovered from various injuries. Sikuta missed the last two legs while Dennis who turns out for Nondescripts missed the last three after incurring a broken cheekbone. Andrew Amonde retains the armband The five players replace the quintet of Bush Mwale, Nelson Oyoo, Herman Humwa Johnstone Olindi and Geoffrey Okwach.  The two tournaments will see the top two teams sail to the quarterfinals, unlike the previous Dubai and Cape Town editions. Full squad:  Andrew Amonde, Jeff Oluoc, Collins Injera, Daniel Taabu, Billy Odhiambo, Dan Sikuta, Oscar Ouma, Oscar Dennis, Sammy Oliech, Jacob Ojee, Willy Ambaka, Vincent Onyala and Alvin Otieno.