An influential Jubilee Party official was overheard recently bragging how his plan to tame Deputy President William Ruto is falling into place. The official, who was having lunch with some politicians from Mt Kenya at a hotel along Muthangari Road, openly said the DP was a marked man in the ruling party, and that it was a matter of time before he is kicked out. To add salt to injury, the official claimed that an elaborate scheme had been hatched to vanquish DP's 2022 presidential ambitions. Whether the plan will bear fruit is a matter of time. It seems the three-minute time limit set by Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka during the motion on Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu was not enough for the legal brains to crack the removal from office puzzle. After the ruling, one of the senior senators – a lawyer, went to social media explaining how it was impractical for Waititu’s replacement to be sworn in before ten days elapse. The post attracted the attention of top legal minds who schooled the lawmaker on the law leaving many wondering whether the lawyer forgot the provision just because of his political persuasion on the Senate process. What happened to one fiery regional coordinator whose promotion to the role was based on his no-nonsense approach to matters security. The man is now under siege after residents of his post called for his transfer over ineptness in handling attacks targeting them. The attacks, which have over the years been pegged on a retrogressive cultural practice, seem to be getting worse by the day. A local told Corridors that they feel the administrator has not proven that he can assure them of safety, and could be under the wraps of two politicians from the insecurity prone region. President Uhuru Kenyatta is pushing investors to set up manufacturing lines in the country but some have proven to care less about the safety of their workers. One of these in the iron sheets manufacturing sector has had reports of injuries to workers going unchecked. The entity operates without a safety department and lacks an ambulance to rush the injured to hospital. A worker whispered to Corridors that people have lost their arms, legs in injuries that police are bribed when investigating the incidents.