National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale has said the current BBI consultative forums have been hijacked by the political class. The Garissa Township MP warned that it was unfortunate that politicians had taken control of a noble idea initiated by President Uhuru Kenyatta to unite Kenyans. The vocal lawmaker, who oversees the ruling Jubilee administration business in the National Assembly, termed the ongoing BBI campaigns a 'confusion'. “The BBI that was initiated by President Uhuru Kenyatta was an all-inclusive process. It is sad that the process has now been hijacked by the political class which is creating a lot of confusion,” Duale told the Star. Duale, who has not been attending the BBI rallies, insisted that he has no plans to appear before any of the public meetings unless attended by the President and Deputy President William Ruto. “Currently my tray is full with Parliament resuming next week. The people of North Eastern are facing a lot of problems from insecurity, schools being closed down to census issues. These are my priorities for now,” Duale said. Speaking for the first time since the BBI rallies were unveiled, Duale said he believes that the right forum where he will present the views of his Garissa Township constituents is to the BBI task-force. “I will present my proposals to the Haji-led team because it is the one recognized by law. I don't address the problems of my people through public barazas,' he added. Duale spoke for the first time about the BBI crusade after completing a two-week extensive tour of the United States of America where he held deliberations with international partners. Duale's remarks comes a day after President Uhuru Kenyatta said the ongoing BBI consultative forums are not meant to isolate anybody. Uhuru on Saturday said BBI's focus is to collectively unite all Kenyans irrespective of their political affiliations. “It aims at solving several challenges that make Kenyans fight after every five years of elections, we want going forward to bring Kenyans together and solve those challenges,” Uhuru said. He added, "If it is about allocation to counties,  we want equitable distribution and representation of citizens so that no Kenyan will feel left out". Uhuru said within BBI, if the government intends to carry out infrastructure development, it will be done across the country and not selectively. Uhuru was speaking at Kangeta, Igembe Central constituency where he commissioned the new KCC  cooling plant.