A father of three Kenyan students in China has narrated of his hopelessness over the coronavirus outbreak. So far the viral disease has killed over 2,000 people in mainland China and affected more than 15,000. Frankline Olumasai from Kitui narrated to the Star how he felt when the virus was declared in Wuhan city. "....My daughter called me about the lockdown..and that was the beginning of helplessness," Olumasai said. Olumasai said his children -two men and a woman- are in China on a private scholarship. "... right now they are okay but my daughter is pinned down in Wuhan..my two sons went to a different province for attachment," he said. He said that after his daughter Melanie called him about the lockdown, he tried to call his friends in China to check if they could help him out. "I tried calling my friends in China, they tried and it was too late... we resorted to just encouraging her.. my two sons were still in a position of leaving but I did not want them to leave Melanie," he said. "..also inside you are spelling a death sentence to the girl in Wuhan..I talk to them every single day. If I don't hear from them for even a day, I feel like something might have gone wrong." Olumasai said he sent money to his daughter to buy a stock of goods and warned her of getting out of the house. "She has stocked up for 40 days.. I got to a point I told her to boil drinking water and bath with water that is also boiled..as a father what do you do?" he posed. He further tells the Star that the daughter received Sh10,000 from the government of Kenya for support. Early February, the government said it will give Sh1.3m to Kenyan students in Wuhan for upkeep. Spokesman Cyrus Oguna said the Finance Ministry has released the money to support the students. Another $5,000( Sh506,800) has been provided by the Chinese government through the Kenyan embassy. "I heard my son saying that Melanie had received 100 dollars.. it was meant for those in Wuhan.. some parents are saying their children did not receive..," Olumasai said. Olumasai said with that money plus the ones he gave her and told his daughter not to go out. "...and this particular time, it is the only lockdown that would work. I have told my daughter not to walk out. I asked her to stay marooned in her room until we find out that she is safe," he said. "My daughter is on the room..her room has become a storehouse.. only herself can be comfortable in it.. but she does not go out.." A clearly disturbed Olumasai said the food that they eat or they are given by the China government is checked every now and then. "I cannot relax even after hearing this.. I am thirsty for information.. I try to see which one I can lean on but it is confusing," he said.