Kenya international opposite hitter Kelvin Omuse Ejakait has joined General Service Unit club to fill the void left by Kenya's Most Valuable Player Abiud Chirchir ahead of the 2020 season. Omuse  joins the national League champions GSU after a one-year stint at Equity Bank, who finished fifth in the 2019 regular season. Chirchir was released to play professional volleyball with Club Olympique de Kélibia in Tunisia on January 28. Omuse joined GSU in anticipation of employment as a paramilitary police later in the year. Omuse, whose talent was honed at Butula Boys High School under the tutelage of coach Conrad Asakwa, also featured for Kenya Defence Forces' Ulinzi in 2018 in the national league. The 6'4ft towering right attacker said he looks forward to assuming the role left by Chirchir. He has been training with the team for the past one month. "It is a tall order to fill Chirchir's big shoes in the team but I commit myself and I know I will make a worthwhile contribution in our campaign to defend the title and win many more," noted Omuse, who ably replaced Chirchir in the national team when he was injured last year. "The thought of leaving Equity had never crossed my mind but on realising that I had no chance of gaining employment with the bank, I seized the opportunity offered by GSU. "I have played with most of the players here at GSU in the national team and therefore gelling with the lineup will not be difficult," added Omuse. GSU head coach Gideon Tarus noted that Omuse is a budding player and that he will be an asset to his lineup going forward. Tarus said: “Having Kelly (Kelvin) in my camp now is timely and a plus for us because Abiud (Chirchir) left for a professional stint. He is a good and intelligent player. He is doing well in training and he only needs a little sharpening to help him gel better and faster with the rest of the team,” Chirchir who celebrated his 23rd birthday on Sunday will rejoin GSU immediately his contract with the Tunisian side expires in May.