Buoyed by winning both the 7's and 15's titles during the Maseno-Amadi Open tournament, minnow's Koyonzo are now targeting to stop Western region's rugby giants—Kakamega High and St Peter's Mumias. In the 7's, Koyonzo narrowly saw off Vihiga High School 5-0 while in 15's they beat host Maseno School 6-O in the final. Emmanuel Oketch scored a penalty and a drop goal to give Koyonzo the deserved win after a dominant display over the Nyanza region 15's champions. “We are going for the Western region 7's and 15's titles. We have had good preparations and I can assure you we are ready to face the big boys,” said Koyonzo's coach Eliud Okwemba. He added: “In the 15's final, Maseno gave us a good game. We won because we were lucky. In the Sevens, we fielded our development side and I'm impressed because they won against Vihiga, a team that has reached nationals in the past.” Maseno's head coach Paul Nyamita conceded defeat. “We have learnt a lot from this game and tournament. We have identified areas we want to improve on ahead of the zonal games next week. Our target is to retain the Nyanza region trophy.” In the 7's semis, Koyonzo beat Sigalame 12-0 while Vihiga saw off Makhokho 24-0. In the 15's semis, Maseno narrowly edged a resilient Kabianga 12-10 while Koyonzo defeated Ambira 10-0. Maseno School, enjoying the support of home crowd, won the basketball title after beating Ambira 57-35 after a strong second-half performance. Maseno, coached by former Ambira coach Paul Mboya, won the first  two quarters 10-9 and 13-8. They extended their lead 22-12 and 12-6 in the last quarters to seal the game.  Mboya was impressed with the performance of his charges against his team but said they need to improve. “Ambira has a quality team. For us to reclaim our regional title, we have to step up. It's early in the season and we have time to improve in some areas,” added Mboya. Ambira's coach Leonard Okuku said his boys succumbed to the pressure from Maseno fans. Mukumu Girls clinched the women's title after beating Archbishop Okoth Ojola 25-10 in a tough final. In the semis, Mukumu defeated Dr Aloo Gumbi 38-17 while Ojola edged Rang'ala 19-11.