The Kenya Defence Forces has come to the rescue of Thika residents who have been grappling with acute water shortage. The soldiers from the 12 Engineers Battalion drilled a 130m-deep borehole in Gatundu in a record two days. It cost Sh700,000 and will serve Landless, Gatundu, Magana and Happy Valley estates. Residents had been relying on vendors but lamented the exorbitant prices at which they bought water. On Wednesday, the KDF handed over the borehole to are water services provider, Thika Thika Water and Sewerage Company (Thiwasco), which will treat and distribute water to households. The borehole can produce 12,000 litres per hour, with an estimated production of about 150,000 litres a day. Residents welcomed the project, saying it was a godsend and will enable them to undertake economic activities such as farming. "I'm confident that I will revive my poultry farming since there will a constant water supply," Landless estate resident Regina Kung’u said. Thiwasco managing director Moses Kinya said the borehole will complement their efforts to reach a target production of 46 million litres a day. Two other mega projects will be implemented. Thika Town MP Patrick Wainaina, who lobbied for the project, said he will partner with the soldiers for similar projects. "Drilling a borehole normally costs Sh3 million and at the rate by the KDF of Sh700,000, we can drill more than four boreholes that will be of benefit to residents," he said. The NG-CDF office will set aside Sh4 million to facilitate installation of a hybrid pump and a reservoir tank. Eng Kinya disclosed that the World Bank, through the Water Services Regulatory Board, has funded another project to the tune of Sh764 million that will also improve water supply. He said Kariminu-Mary Hill project will inject an additional 15 million litres per day into the system. The project is expected to be completed in the next 36 months. A new treatment plant will be constructed in Mary Hill area of Thika subcounty to expand the company’s production capacity. "These projects will ensure an all-time flow of clean water to our consumers," Kinya said. He noted that the region’s demand stands at 46 million litres a day against the company’s daily production of 36 million litres, adding that they serve a population of more than 300,000 residents in Thika and some sections of Gatanga and Juja constituencies. Brigadier Stephen Radina of the 12 Engineers Battalion said the borehole has a high discharge capacity and if put to good use will tackle the water crisis. "The money was spent on consumables like petrol and oil, while we offered machinery. I hope that treatment and piping will be done on time so it can benefit members of the public," he said. The soldiers drilled other boreholes at Kianjau Primary School and Mang’u High School as part of their corporate social responsibility. (Edited by F'Orieny)