EACC has once again summoned embattled Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko's entire cabinet together with 12 other county officials. The 22 county officers are to record statements over the tender for construction of Dandora stadium. They are all set to appear on Friday as of 9.00 am up to 2.00 pm. Among those summoned are the recently sacked two CECs Winfred Kathangu and Pauline Kahiga and former Acting County Attorney Cristine Ireri. In November last year, the commission summoned Sonko's entire Cabinet to record statements. Five other officials were to record statements, according to EACC's letter dated November 15, 2019. "Further kindly inform and facilitate the release of the following county officials who have served or are still serving in these positions for an interview and statement recording at our offices located at Integrity Centre, Nairobi," read part of the letter. EACC Deputy Director for Forensic Investigation John Kolkoloi addressed the letter to the County Secretary of Nairobi. Those summoned were head of CEC secretariat Joyce Kinyanjui, administration office's Samwel Kinyanjui, chief of staff Peter Mugo and deputy county secretary Leboo Ole Morintat. Former acting county attorney Christine Ireri, CEC for Finance Winfred Gathangu, CEC for Devolution Lary Wambua and suspended CEC for Health Mohammed Dagane will appear on November 20, 2019. On November 21, CEC Roads Hitan Majevdia will appear before EACC alongside CEC Water and Environment Vesca Kagongo, CEC for Trade Allan Igambi and CEC for Education Lucia Mulwa. Suspended CEC for Finance Charles Kerich, CEC for Agriculture Pauline Kahiga and CEC for ICT Newton Munene were to appear on November 22. The officials are required to carry certified copies of the letter of appointment and the County Executive Committee Memoranda No 1 -4 of 2019. EACC  asked the officials to submit Agenda Notices for County Executive Committee Meetings No 5 to 7 of 2019 and minutes of the 5th and 6th meetings of Nairobi City County Executive Committee.