The government has been asked to fast-track operation of the Pyrethrum Regulatory Authority to address licensing, processing and sale of the produce. Farmers from Nyandarua county that was once leading in pyrethrum production met in Naivasha to discuss problems facing agriculture in the region. Former chairman of Kenya Seed Company Nafatali Mureiithi said farmers in the county were keen to resume to pyrethrum production. He however noted that there were many challenges facing the crop, making farmers shy off from it. “Years back, pyrethrum was the main source of income for many families but due to punitive laws and low prices farmers decided to turn to potato farming,” he said. Mureithi said the authority would address licensing, processing and marketing of the crop. He noted that studies were under way on developing organic fertiliser from deposits found in the endangered Lake Olbolossat. “Currently, some universities with the support of Treasury are conducting a survey on the amount of deposits in the lake which can be processed to organic fertiliser,” he said. Former deputy governor Waithaka Mwangi said farmers in the county continued to suffer despite producing crops worth billions of shillings every year. He called on the state to consider listing milk and potato as part of strategic food reserve as the region did not have any processing plant for the produce. “Nyandarua county produces 20 per cent of potato and milk in the country after the collapse of the pyrethrum sector but farmers are earning peanuts from the produce,” he said. Mwangi called on the government to address the issues around the closed Midlands company in Njabini whose potential in processing potatoes had not been utilized. Dr Simon Kanyingi told the meeting that the prices of milk, potatoes and vegetables from the region were not economical for farmers. “The national government must consider construction of at least two factories to process milk, potatoes and vegetables for farmers to benefit from their produce,” he said.