Did President Uhuru Kenyatta dodge a certain political stalwart at Carnivore during the UB40 concert ? A source who is aware of what transpired has told Corridors that Kenya’s CEO was having a good time singing and dancing along to the favorite tunes by the legendary band , but had to cut short his whoopee upon learning that certain politicians were making their way. Roisters were stunned by the hasty move at the time the carnival mood had set in . The political gang, it is understood, were planning to use the optics at the party to milk political capital. A governor was left distraught after party officials gobbled his money and failed to reciprocate appropriately. The besieged governor was overheard lamenting that he was ripped off by the shrewd party officials who had promised to tame irate and money hungry MCAs baying for his blood . The county chief has promised to expose the rapacious party honchos if he fails to salvage his threatened position and teach them a lesson on how not to swindle those in dire need. Panic  has gripped a key operative behind the leadership woes and wrangling at the University of Nairobi. Incidentally, a member of Parliament in the Education Committee whispered to the Chief at the Big House the alleged underhand appointment of VC was indeed procedural and the wanton ouster of the entire university council was needless drama meant to cover up the truth. As the matter stands, UoN Workers’ Union leadership has been breathing fire revving to move to the streets to demonstrate against the man-made confusion. Meanwhile, the crafty fixer of the current UoN imbroglio is stage -managed to give the impression that trouble started at the Public Service Commission during the interviewing process. It is now coming out that PSC simply received the applications, did the shortlisting and then passed on the list to the University Council which proceeded to advice the Cabinet Secretary. Talk of a man-made crisis! The ongoing Law Society of Kenya presidential contest is quickly turning into a game of subterfuge and vicious intrigues. A cantankerous and boastful aspirant who trashes his three other opponents—and indeed everyone else—as airheads has resorted to maligning his competitors instead of selling his candidature and vision. Recently, the balloon of vanity declined to grace a radio talk show with his opponents alleging that media houses are biased against him. Those in the know say that the fellow has sensed defeat and is looking for excuses left, right and centre in order to save face after his imminent defeat.