FIA President Jean Todt believes the return of Safari Rally to the top flight schedule will add immense value and zest to the 2020 World Rally Championship. Safari Rally reclaimed its World Rally status late last year after an 18-year hiatus. Todt, who has been in the forefront of salvaging the event’s status, said each event is designed to offer a diverse challenge to competitors, adding Safari will be a true test in the battle for man and machine. “As we mentioned, the Swedish Rally is meant for snow and Safari Rally was a traditional event and everyone was happy to see cars cover long distances. But things changed and no one would accept to have similar stages,” Todt was quoted as saying on Kawowo Sports from Sweden, where British driver Elfyn Evans emerged the winner of the second round of the WRC. Todt, who participated in the Safari in the early 70s, added: “Kenya will be different with gravel roads, the tough nature, adventure and all other things needed for the interest of the World Rally.” “We are now waiting to reap the fruits of the efforts towards the Safari return. In my position, I always try to live beyond a personal level. I try to see what is the interest of the championship,” he said. The 2020 WRC Calendar was globalised with more events outside Europe.  The Kenyan event will run as the eighth round of the World Rally Series from July 16-19 in Nairobi and Naivasha areas. “We want to have rallies in every continent. Each region deserves to host a certain FIA event. Africa only had the World Rallycross Championship in South Africa.” “However,  I would like to have more championships like endurance go to different parts of the world,” he added. Europe, North America, South America, Asia, Africa and Australasia continents will make up the 2020 WRC season. The Safari was first held in 1953 as a celebration of the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II and covered Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania. Ugandan-born Kenyan Shekhar Mehta holds the record for Safari WRC wins with five victories, including four consecutively. Former world champions Björn Waldegård (four), Juha Kankkunen and Colin McRae (both three) were all acknowledged Safari masters. The rally will be based in Nairobi with the service park and stages located near Lakes Naivasha and Elementaita, north-west of the city in the Great Rift Valley.