President Uhuru Kenyatta’s tours of Mount Kenya - in which he has carried with him state goodies - means that at least his word will have sway in the region. Deputy President William Ruto had invaded the region to a point Members of Parliament were listening to him. This was bringing the question of; who is controlling Parliament? However, with the renewed efforts, the President will likely connect to his people. And when the people are the ones calling shots, they will bring the parliamentarians to answer. So, parliamentarians will now have to obey President Kenyatta. This was evident during the impeachment of Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu in the Senate last Wednesday. What happened in the Senate was a clear testimony that Tangatanga people are not strong - after all. People are leaving them because of such kind of intrigues. President Kenyatta’s visits also mean a lot and enhance positivity for the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI). It was important that the President did that before BBI goes to Nyeri. The central province was in a situation where they could not visit easily. Raila would not have found it easy to go to Central. They – together with Uhuru, could not go and pitch rallies as they wanted. Now with this change of strategy, Uhuru is now calling the shots and the person who will be injured is Ruto. After stepping into State House, President Kenyatta went into slumber. That is the truth. Meanwhile, Ruto went to work to strategise for 2022. Definitely, since nature abhors a vacuum, Deputy President Ruto took charge and the consequence is that Central moved to Ruto side deeply. Even if you talk to wananchi down there, they are just talking pro-Ruto. The simple man is talking about the DP. But with what Uhuru is doing now, a lot of this will change. The Uhuru we see now is the one we saw when he was faced by the ICC. He at that time managed to whip up his backyard, and even the diaspora in Nakuru. President Kenyatta will be able to whip his people back to his line. The Maseno University don spoke with the Star