Embu Governor Martin Wambora has warded-off the looming confrontation between Deputy President William Ruto’s supporters and police following the closure of their fund drive's venue. A fierce confrontation between Muslims in the county and security men was looming large following initial reports that a funds drive towards helping Muslim youth, widows and orphans would not be held at the stadium since the facility is under renovation. The event is set to be presided over by Deputy President William Ruto. Manyatta MP John Muchiri. who will be hosting the DP, and Kirimari MCA Morris Collo had vowed to do anything possible to ensure the function scheduled for tomorrow takes place, even if they are barred from the venue. Muchiri said he suspected that some people were trying to sabotage the function for their own selfish interests, saying they would break into the stadium by force. Muchiri had said the stadium is in his constituency and that he would not allow anybody to stop Manyatta people from holding a fund drive to benefit them. “If that gate is closed, we shall break into the stadium and carry on with our funds drive. I’ll stand by the people of Manyatta and I’ll not allow anybody to play about with them,” Muchiri said on the phone. When Star went to the stadium for a spot check on Saturday, it found the gate still closed and a public notice from Youth and Sports  Samuel Wachira dated February 4 on the gate that read:  “This is to inform the public and the teams that we will close the stadium from February 10, 2020 to March 13, 2020. This is to enable the department to do maintenance. We regret for any inconvenience,” However, Collo said on phone today that things had changed and that he had talked with Governor Wambora who had agreed to halt the ongoing renovation to allow the function to continue as from Monday. “I’ve talked with the governor and he has allowed me to use the Stadium as the MCA of Embu Town. He has said we can use it so that renovation can continue from Monday,” Collo said. He said the governor asked him to take care of everything so that nothing is damaged so that the renovation can resume on Monday. He said there were politics behind the issue, adding that the governor had allowed him to carry on with the fund drive since the beneficiaries are his people Wambora had earlier said that the stadium has been closed temporarily for renovation after residents complained about its flooding. He had, however, dismissed reports that the stadium had been closed to block the DP from using it adding that since there is no rain this was the best time to renovate it so as to improve its drainage, do land   landscaping and grass trimming. "I am surprised that some are saying that I have closed Moi stadium to block some individuals from using it. This is not the case. The chief officer in charge of the stadium has brought to my attention a memo he had written to the effect that the stadium will be closed for renovation, from February 10,” Wambora said. 