Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko's surrender of key county functions to the national government was praised on Friday by Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi. On Tuesday, Sonko shocked many people when he handed over four critical functions — health, transport, public works and planning service. He signed the handover with DevoluitonCS Eugene Wamalwa who joined Abdi on Friday in Wajir Speaking in Wajir town when he welcomed UN Heads of Mission who visited the county, Abdi told critics to "look at the bigger picture." “We really welcome that move by Governor Sonko to transfer some functions to the national government. It is a move in the right direction that comes at the right time," he said.   He added, “There is a provision in the Constitution and the County Governments Act that if a county is unable to manage certain function[s]it can always give it/them to the national government. Similarly, the national government can always give some of its functions to us." Abdi singled out security as one of the functions that the national government can give to the county, noting that the region faced unique challenges that only it can address if the mandate is fully given to them. Wamalwa said that Nairobi was too important for everyone, not just for Nairobians, hence, the need to ensure that services are not disrupted and are at their best at all times. “I want to thank the governors and the COG for supporting the solution that we are seeking for our great city of Nairobi, because either you are part of the solution or you are part of the problem so you must choose one side,” the CS said. “We need to acknowledge one thing, that Nairobi is too important for all of us, not just for Nairobians. When Governor Sonko acknowledged that Nairobi is facing exceptional circumstances and challenges, then it needs unprecedented decisions and solutions to save Nairobi,” Wamalwa said. On Thursday, Sonko defended his decision, saying Nairobi has unique needs compared to those of other counties. "My government set out on a fact-finding mission benchmarked in Washington, DC,  and Abuja in Nigeria. We established that cities and metropolises the size of Nairobi are best served jointly by devolved units and central governments," he said. He claimed he initiated discussions with the national government with a view to handling services with both county and state resources. "It is this consultative process that led to the crafting of the historic and comprehensive agreement that we signed on Tuesday, handing over management of some county functions to the national government," he said. (Edited by V. Graham)  