The National Treasury has decried slow pace by state corporations in clearing pending bills and statutory deductions, with only Sh2.2 billion out of outstanding Sh292.9 billion settled following presidential directive. The agitated Treasury CS Ukur Yatani while addressing chief executive officers of state corporations at a consultative meeting on financial management held yesterday warned of tough consequences to accounting officers derailing the government's progress on pending bills. According to Treasury, the more those bills are delayed, the more they are accumulating, pilling pressure on limited resources while cutting needed capital flow to spur economic growth. The exchequer revealed that only Sh756.5 million out of Sh71.3 billion has been paid to suppliers since December 20, with pending payment standing at Sh70.5 billion as at February 4. Only Sh2.03 billion has been paid to contractors since December with state agencies yet to clear Sh153.1 billion. The government agencies are extremely slow in remitting statutory deductions to relevant authorities despite slashing the same from employees' salaries. According to Treasury, PAYE obllgation which stood at Sh14.8 billion in December has since increased to Sh15.2 billion, with only Sh419.5 million submitted to KRA during the period up to February 4. Those agencies have managed to remit only Sh2.49 million to the National Social Security Fund (NSSF) in last two months since December 20, with pending settlement standing at a whopping Sh499.9 million. They have handed only Sh7.7 million to NHIF since December, with pending bill standing at Sh102.1 million as at early this month compared to Sh108.9 million on December 20. Government agencies have remitted only Sh24.3 million of Sacco deductions from a bulk of Sh2.26 billion in December. Unremitted pension arrears have since risen to Sh15.2 billion in February from Sh14.9 billion in December. State agencies are behind remittance schedule by 287.5 million. ''It is observed that some ttate corporations are not prioritizing budget allocation for statutory obligations like PAYE, Pension, SACCO deductions, NHIF, NSSF. This has adversely impacted on the overall performance of the economy,'' Treasury said.