Ukambani residents have proposed the creation of the post of an executive Prime Minister and two deputies. In its memorandum to the Building Bridges Initiative task force, the region further wants the government expanded for inclusivity and the top seats engendered. The region, in resolutions read by Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana in Kitui on Saturday, also wants the Senate to be made an Upper House. Residents of the three counties; Makueni, Machakos and Kitui, further want cabinet secretaries to be chosen from both elected and non-elected leaders. They have also proposed further division of Kitui county to curve out Mwingi as an independent county. The lot wants the share of the revenue for devolution to be based at 50 per cent for resources to trickle down to the grassroots. In the report handed over to Rose Museo and Agnes Kavindu–all members of the BBI task force–also proposes that at least five per cent of county resources be allocated to the youth. The region also wants crops raised in the region such as grams to be included among the crops stocked by the Strategic Grain Reserve Fund. “We want a crop development master plan to secure our farmers during a bumper harvest. We want a review of the SGRF to include Ndengu(grams),” Kibwana said. Residents also pushed for mineral resources in the region to be processed locally as well as the creation of value addition mechanisms. Kibwana listed iron ore, lime, coal and gemstone as those they want to be exploited and value-added. The memo also spoke of jobs for the youths with eyes set on the operationalising the Konza City and investments in solar energy. “We want the promotion of investment in the jua kali sector. Revive stalled projects in the greater South Eastern region.” On health, the leaders resolved that they need another supplier of medical consumables and not just the Kenya Medical Supplies Agency. The recommendations, which will be subjected to the BBI Steering Committee, follow those reached in Kisii, Kakamega and Mombasa. The three regions proposed the creation of a third-tier government while maintaining the 47 counties as they are. Edited by R.Wamochie