Nyandarua leaders have reiterated the need for Mt Kenya communities to consolidate their unity to remain in control of national politics and get the right share of resources. Governor Francis Kimemia, Kipipiri MP Amos Kimunya, Ndaragwa MP Jeremiah Kioni and county assembly Majority leader Wambugu King’ori said the region does not only carry a significant percentage of the Kenyan population but is also an economic powerhouse contributing significantly to the national GDP. They spoke at Aberdare Resort Hall, Ol Kalou, during the BBI validation meeting held on Wednesday ahead of the region’s rally set for Kinoru Stadium in Meru on Saturday. The forum was also attended by more than 1,000 grassroots leaders. Among the issues agreed on is the need for the region to hold a major position in the proposed expanded executive that will also comprise prime minister and deputies. Governor Kimemia said the region commands more than 11 million votes. This is enough to enable it to retain the presidency, go for the position of deputy president or any other prime seat, he said. “The region wants to be part and parcel of governance of this country so we can contribute to good governance, secure resources.” Kimemia said that after the BBI issues are settled, political alliances will be formed and Mt Kenya will unite with any region in the country where the strength of the votes will dictate the share on the negotiating table. “Our votes cannot be underrated or ignored in any way,” he said. The leaders noted that some people, including elected leaders from the region, want to see the region fragmented so their voice becomes irrelevant. “We have very huge numbers but if we agree to be divided we shall not benefit from the BBI,” Kimunya said. He cautioned Mt Kenya region leaders in 2022 election campaigns to appreciate that Kenyans elected President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2017 and the position is not vacant. He said they have to wait because 2022 candidates have yet to be known. They emphasised that the BBI is all about national cohesion and not to bar anyone from becoming president or creating a position for specific individuals, adding the initiative should not be used to incite tribal hatred and provoking other people. Kimemia said the region is accommodative and encourage Kenyans from other regions to work, buy land, settle and invest in Mt Kenya. He added that those trying to shut other communities from settling or seeking leadership in different regions wallow in retrogressivism that must not be encouraged in modern-day Kenya. “We want other Kenyans to settle in Nyandarua, for instance. We shall be able to support them to move on,” he said. Kioni said leaders such as Narok Senator Ledama ole Kina have misconstrued the true spirit and meaning of the BBI, hence should not be allowed to speak in its forums. He said such leaders shudder at the thought of a united progressive nation, thus want to scuttle the BBI by insulting, provoking and inciting communities against each other. The lawmaker said the senator is desperate to fill the leadership vacuum in the Maa community, which resulted from the demise of icons such as Joseph Nkaissery, William ole Ntimama and John Keen, but the manner he wants to do it is “juvenile and unacceptable”. “The government is addressing the issue, but I feel such a leader should not be jailed as that would amount to making him appear important,” he said. Kimunya said they have forgiven the senator but will counsel him to understand that the Constitution allows every Kenyan to own land and settle anywhere in the country. “Anyone who thinks otherwise has not read the Constitution and we are going to give him a copy,” he said. The Kipipiri legislator said traditionally, elders advocated induced vomiting for those who had anything troubling them. He said the senator has 'vomited', and the best Kenyans can do is to understand and forgive. (Edited by F'Orieny)