The National Cohesion and Integration Commission has sent a warning to the Building Bridges Initiative rally organisers. NCIC chairperson Samuel Kobia said on Thursday said people entrusted with organising the delegate forums and rallies as well as speakers must safeguard the integrity of BBI. "Avoid distortions, point out gaps and make suggestions and additions to improve on it," Kobia said. He added that BBI rally organisers should be clear and present the agenda in good time. "The agenda shall guide conversations and resolutions at BBI public rallies," Kobia said. The commission has also said women, youth and people living with disabilities should be incorporated in all BBI rallies. The BBI rally organisers will be responsible for unbecoming behaviour or violent actions from the supporters, NCIC said. The commission has also said supporters will be held accountable individually for disruption. It added that forums should be held to celebrate diversity and avoiding tendencies towards the mentality of negativity. The BBI speakers and supporters have also been asked to respect the freedom of expression of other people. "There should be severe consequences for those who involve themselves in abusive activities," Kobia said. The commission warnings come following cases of disruption in some forums. During the BBI rally in Kitui, chaos was witnessed after Senate Majority Kipchumba Murkomen and Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria missed their seats at the main dais. The meeting at the Kitui Stadium had just started and was largely peaceful after ODM leader Raila Odinga accompanied by the host Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu, Wiper Leader Kalonzo Musyoka arrived at around 1.18 pm. A scuffle then ensued. Minutes letter, Kuria was seen being forcefully ejected from the main dais amid jeers from the crowd. A visibly agitated Ngilu shouted that the Gatundu South MP be removed from the area. "Nobody will abuse our President Uhuru Kenyatta and sit in this meeting! Atolewe!" Ngilu shouted. A week earlier at the rally in Mombasa, Kuria had to fight for his seat at the dais.