The Ministry of Defence has distanced itself from the Sh39.5 billion fake military arms procurement scam. In a statement released on Monday, the ministry states that investigators and complainants visited  the Ministry of Defence Headquarters on Monday to ascertain the offices they allegedly accessed. "During the visit it was established that the complainants have never interacted with any official mandated to represent the Ministry of Defence," the statement read. The statement further states that the visit also revealed that the complaints have never been to the Ministry of Defence headquarters at Ulinzi House as has been alleged. "For avoidance of doubt, all documents and content displayed in the media pertaining this matter, never originated from the Ministry of Defence," it further read. The Ministry of Defence said it has an elaborate procurement process and structures that ensure transparency and accountability of any procurement process as guided by the public Procurement and Assets Disposal Act(2016) Deputy President William Ruto defended himself against claims linking him to a Sh39 billion military equipment tender scam former Sports CS Rashid Echesa has been adversely mentioned in. The DP on Sunday questioned whether those involved in the scam visited the Department of Defence and who facilitated the meetings. In a tweet, Ruto said, "ODP (Office of the Deputy President) does not procure for any ministry/department. Question: Other than 23min in Annex, for months, which government offices involved in the 'tender' did the scammers visit? Did they access DoD? Who facilitated? Who did they meet? Get the truth. Forget the sponsored nonsense in media." Ruto was roped into the scam following allegations the deal was negotiated and signed at Harambee House Annex, which houses the Deputy President’s office. However, Ruto took to Twitter to say, “Just wait and see where this will end up. Washindwe! Go for the fraudsters. Leave me to serve the nation.” Echesa was on Friday charged with forgery over the deals and ordered to deposit Sh1 million bail.