Kenyans on Twitter have expressed their amusement to a picture of President Uhuru Kenyatta and retired German professional basketball player Dirk Weiner Nowitzki. Nowitzki accompanied German president Frank-Walter Steinmeier during his three day visit in Kenya. With this picture, Kenyans were mostly amused by the height difference between the two. Uhuru who is relatively very tall, appeared to have got a rather 'intimidating' match. The Head of State is 1.85 metres while Weiner's recorded height is 2.13 metres. Kenyans could not let the height difference slide as they left humorous remarks on the picture. Here are some of the comments; "This should not be entertained in Kenya, This guy should have knelt down," @AKbelo said. @Denero57334939 said " How can you be taller than the president Hii ndio definition ya Kamwana." "President Uhuru was literally looking up to the Diplomat," @Thomaskan82 said. Fued Mc'opondo said"The man is simply looking down upon our president." @Kimmensour "Wah kwani wakiritho ni mfupi aje." "Isn't that man tall, Uhuru is usually tall but looks like a dwarf next to him," @LeyLelesan said. "As tall as giraffe,,, if Prezo looks that short,,, I wonder how DP would look like," @ Elijahlimo said. Karago D Mbiru tweeted; "That dude is at least a whole foot taller than Uhuru!!" Another user said; "This guy is a security threat he can sit on our Head of State," "Is that Dirk Notiwzki towering over the President?" godfrey mambo said. Robert Ombaso tweeted; "Hi, Mr Dirk Norwiski, you have made a heinous offence of dwarfing my lovely president unconditionally. How can you be tall than our president?" Farhan Abdisalaan also tweeted, "Photographer @StateHouseKenya you need to be fired for sharing such a photo. Kwani ulikosa proper photos ya ku share. Shame on you" Philip Marube commented," Anything wrong with our President's posture or he is just short? Or is it the photoman?" Weiner was NBA finals MVP in 2011 and of the most celebrated stars in basketball. He is married to a half-Kenyan half- Sweden lady and have three kids together. Uhuru and First Lady Margaret Kenyatta yesterday evening at State House, Nairobi hosted a State Banquet in honour of the visiting President and his delegation.