While Kenyans could be cheering wildly in rallies organised to ostensibly sensitise them on the BBI report, a very negligible number if any, has read what is contained in that report. And the schemers of the BBI plot seem to be very happy with the turn of things. All the noise about availing the copies to the people to read for themselves have fallen on deaf ears as even the task force whose term ends at the end of June has not found it necessary to address this issue. What they have been heard loudly supporting are the rallies going on across the country, organised by politicians. It's the political end game that is shaping and driving the agenda of the Yusuf Haji led project. But because it has taken too long to convince critical constituencies; coercion, intimidation and use of force are quickly finding their way back. BBI agenda is largely about those in positions of leadership and one needs to only look at the way governors have taken it up with gusto. While it proposed an increased allocation to the counties, the newfound sweetener is the proposal by ODM that a third-tier be created to take, especially when it's a constructional matter. What will be the difference between us and those countries where laws are changed to suit the whims of the presidents who don't want to retire? Atonement and appeasement are not the provinces of the Constitution unless meant for the greater good of the people. Counties are today illegally spending money to ferry people from one corner of the country to the other yet the BBI caravan is expected everywhere in this country. It speaks of a heavily guarded process that reeks of sinister motive, dishonesty and selfishness. The latest spectre where politicians openly call for those opposed to their ideals to be ejected, which is a euphemism for a call to attack them is not only regrettable but shows that the agenda politicians are propelling is far from what Kenyans are being fed. Ethnicity is now being lionised and raw hatred openly displayed by those who call themselves the bridge builders yet the institutions mandated with taming such recklessness listen to the whims and dictates of those who wield power. At this rate, and as superintended by those who called themselves the defenders of human rights in the past when they were in the cold, Kenya is steadily sliding back to the days of Mama na Baba to the disadvantage of the citizens.  Economic and political analyst