New AFC Leopards' striker Elvis Rupia has reiterated his readiness to shoulder the goal-scoring responsibilities and fill in the void left by John Makwata. Leopards captured the forward on the final day of the transfer window from Wazito albeit on loan and the burly striker had instant impact, netting the sole goal in their 1-0 win over Ulinzi Stars last weekend. His goal saw Leopards end Ulinzi’s 15-match unbeaten run as well as inspired his side to climb to sixth with 34 points—ten shy of league leaders Gor Mahia. Rupia was deemed as a direct replacement to Makwata who returned to the Zambian league, signing for champions Zesco United on Friday last week. Prior to his departure, Makwata who was attached to another Zambian outfit, Buildcon in March 2017 to August of the following year, was the league’s leading top scorer with 13 goals from 17 matches. Rupia, however, said he will not succumb to the pressure of matching the standards set by Makwata. “I am not under pressure to fill the void he left. We are gifted differently but I will try my best to pick from where he left. I am always composed in front of the goal and I give 100 percent. I am happy I started my stay at the den with a goal and I am hoping for many more returns,” said the former Nakuru All Stars' hitman. Rupia, who has six goals against his name is in the meantime uncertain of returning to Wazito once his loan deal with Ingwe expires. The former Nzoia Sugar player who had joined the club after being released by Zambia’s Power Dynamos hardly found playing time at Wazito as the club, thanks to the rotation policy, employed by the tacticians who have manned the outfit this season. “I never enjoyed football at Wazito as playing time was not guaranteed on match days. I am the kind of player who delivers when I consistently make it to the starting team. I am not sure if I will return after my loan stint but I am ready for anything. At the moment, I am keen to help Leopards win matches in a convincing way,” he added.   