The government will spend Sh60 million to extend Othaya town sewerage system. The pipeline will be laid from the town and cover eight kilometers to the sewerage treatment site. The Principal Secretary in the Ministry of Water and Sanitation Joseph Irungu said this in Othaya town while commissioning the construction works on Friday. The project, which is in its third phase, is expected to be completed by July this year. Othaya MP Gichuki Mugambi said the sewer will be useful to local investors  who are building multi-storey to meet the growing housing demand. Mugambi said the number of visitors in the constituency has been increasing since the government operationalized Othaya Level Six Hospital. “Othaya is one constituency that is requiring so many houses. We have a Level Six Hospital here that is expected to employ 1,300 workers who will need houses, a problem that can only be addressed by building of multi-storey buildings,” he said. The entire project, which is funded by African Development Bank, will cost more than Sh300 million. Earlier, the bank had pumped in Sh250 million into the project. The PS said after the completion of the sewer system, the government will focus on desilting Chinga dam so that it can hold more water. The dam supplies water for consumption for residents of both Othaya and Mukurwe-ini constituencies. Mugambi said the dam stands on 153 acres but has now accumulated silt with water now remaining on only 50 acres. Irungu also announced that money has been set aside for the Changachicha Irrigation project, adding that first phases will be done this financial year while the subsequent phases will be completed in the coming years. The irrigation project, he said, requires Sh200 million to completion while Rukira Irrigation project requires Sh65 million. “This project will create employment for thousands of youths who will be engaged in Agribusiness,” said the PS. The projects will also play a big role in the fulfilment of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s one of the Big Four Agendas, he said.