Newly re-appointed Bandari coach Ken Odhiambo is keen to guide the club to finish within the Kenya Premier League top five bracket. Yesterday, the dockers confirmed the return of Odhiambo two years after ditching the club to pursue sports management in Sudan.  He is set to fill in the shoes left by Twahir Muhiddin who resumed his technical director roles. Muhiddin was appointed head coach last month following the unceremonious firing of Bernard Mwalala. The tactician left in July 2018, marking an end to his four-year stay at the club where he rose to the rank of head coach after joining to assist  Muhiddin.  Prior to his first stint with Bandari, Odhiambo served as Harambee Stars assistant coach. Odhiambo,  who is set to be unveiled today, has set his eyes on redeeming the image of the club by steering them to wrap the season in the top five. Bandari, who have in the past two seasons, finished as league runners up have struggled to build on it as they are ranked eleventh with 20 points. “We are not doing well in the league but it is my hope that we will squeeze our name in the top five bracket. It is an honour to reunite with the club and I am looking forward to hitting the ground running this weekend. I have worked with the majority of the players before and they know my style of play, thus making my job easier,” said the former Nairobi City Stars' coach In the meantime, Odhiambo believes confidence is the only missing ingredient in the misfiring playing unit to rediscover their last year’s form. The former Posta Rangers coach who will be attached to the club till the end of the season before resuming his studies in Sudan, tipped the club to retain the Shield Cup should they step up their confidence levels. “I do not intend to change anything philosophy wise but I will be looking to inject confidence in the boys. If they will believe in themselves, it will be easier to achieve our target and even win our second Cup and return to continental football,” he added. Besides coaching, the Caf Level 'A' license holder opened up on his intentions to give back to the community through sports administration and nurturing upcoming tacticians.