Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa on Saturday broke the somber mood at a burial ceremony in Teso North constituency when he advised men to eat locusts to boost their fertility. The Jubilee MP caused laughter when he said men should take advantage of the desert locusts destroying vegetation in parts of the country to increase Kenya’s population through improved fertility that comes with consumption the insects. “From today men should change their diet because I hear locusts improve fertility,” the MP said. “The insects are good at activating that area.” Barasa made the remark during the burial ceremony for Rebecca Isegere, mother to Teso North MP Oku Kaunya at Kakemer village. An online search by the Star, however, found no scientific evidence that locusts increase men’s libido as claimed by the MP. The lawmaker spoke hours after it was reported that the desert locusts had invaded farms in parts his Bungoma county. Bungoma borders Teso North constituency on the northern part of Busia county. The government has been battling the insects with little success. Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya last week told Kenyans not to worry about the invading vegetation eaters since they were dying of old age. The CS however said the government would not tire in its efforts to control their multiplication. “We are employing both aerial and ground spraying, targeted at those about to hatch so as to prevent the breeding of a new generation of the voracious desert locusts,” Munya said while on tour of Tharaka North on February 17. “We are working closely with county governments and development partners have made the progress possible.” Baringo Woman Representative who attended the burial at Kakemer said Kenyans should enjoy the locusts as a delicacy since they are eaten elsewhere. “If you can’t beat them, eat them,” she said. Busia deputy governor Moses Mulomi called on the national government to move with speed and supply counties invaded by the locusts with chemicals and equipment to eradicate them.