Former president Daniel Moi will lie in state for three days to allow Kenyans to view his body. He will be buried at his home in Kabarak next Wednesday in a private ceremony. But what does lying in State mean? Lying in state is the tradition in which the body of a dead official is placed in a state building, either outside or inside a coffin. The only people who are entitled to a state funeral are allowed to lie in state, which includes a president, a former president, a president-elect or any other person designated by the president. This is to allow the public to pay their last respects to the official. It traditionally takes place in the government building of a country, state, or city. While the practice differs among countries, viewing in a location other than the government building may be referred to as lying in repose. Apart from Moi, former founding father Mzee Jomo Kenyatta’s body lay in state for 10 days and national mourning lasted a month. During that time, his body was guarded by 16 officers at any given time. After the viewing period, the body was wheeled to Parliament on a horse-drawn carriage through the streets of Nairobi to his final resting place at Parliament grounds. It was escorted by soldiers, government officials and mourners. The coffin was draped with the Kenyan flag and a coat of arms affixed on the carriage. STATE FUNERAL As a former Head of State, Moi is to receive a State funeral. As elaborate as they are rare, State funerals observe strict rules of protocol. Only a sitting President can proclaim a State funeral, which involves a period of national mourning. “In testimony of the respect in which the memory of ... Daniel Toroitich arap Moi is held, the nation will observe a period of national mourning from today,” Uhuru said. Kenya has only accorded three individuals State burials since it's independence in 1963. They are the founding President Jomo Kenyatta, former Vice President Kijana Wamalwa and Nobel Peace Prize Laureate Wangari Maathai. Wikipedia describes a state funeral as a public ceremony observing strict rules of protocol held to honour heads of State or other people of national significance. State funerals usually include pomp and ceremony as well as religious activities and elements of military tradition. The public is usually involved in state burials.