Deputy President William Ruto's allies are insisting on a Jubilee Parliamentary group meeting days after the ruling party called off the get-together. The DP's troops say the meeting is necessary to put the Jubilee House in order to drive the government agenda in Parliament. Parliament resumed from a long recess on Thursday without holding a PG because the one initially planed for February 14 was postponed following retired President Daniel Moi's burial preparations. A section of MPs allied to Tangatanga told the Star that now that Moi has been buried, there is need to convene a PG to bridge the fissures triggered by factional politics. “Now that mourning Moi is over, the PG should be convened at the earliest time possible,” said North Mogirango MP Joash Nyamoko. The politician maintained that the deep-seated differences in the Jubilee Party could negatively affect the government's agenda in Parliament. The party is currently split into the Tangatanga faction that is championing Deputy President William Ruto's 2022 presidential bid, and the Kieleweke camp that coalesces around President Uhuru Kenyatta. “We are getting into a crucial time for government business in the House. Parliament is likely to be busy processing government business. It could have been important if we received some direction,” Nyamoko said. Some of the government agenda before the House in the coming weeks would be the 2020-2021 budget amid a push by proponents of the Building Bridges Initiative that referendum money be factored. Already the Budget Policy statement that spells out the government's spending priorities for the next financial year has been published and set to be taken to the National Assembly for approval. “We are aware we have been mourning our fallen icon President Moi. Now that we are back, a PG could have eased tensions and built synergy for the party to move in one direction,” said Kimilili MP Didmas Barasa. The key Ruto ally from Western Kenya said a PG has been long overdue and postponing it any further does not help the deteriorating matters in the ruling party. “We need to ventilate and speak out our issues freely. That can only be done in an environment where members are able to raise their concerns without coercion or duress,” Barasa said. Nominated senator Millicent Omanga called for a PG to shore up party unity so that members can be apprised of the government's agenda. 'We hope that the PG will be called in the coming days to enable members get a clear brief from the party hierarchy on the government's priorities,” she said.