The chaotic state of Nairobi's public transport is not only risky but also expensive for hotels and other businesses. PrideInn Group of Hotels MD Hasnain Noorani said the congestion in the city has persisted, despite uproar from hospitality industry players. In the future, this could hurt global conferences that to Nairobi, he said. The World Bank estimates that traffic jams cost the economy Sh50 million in lost productivity a day. This translates into more than Sh17 billion a year. Noorani said in a statement that the traffic problems have a significant impact on hotels daily operations, especially on the conferencing business. "The first thing conference organisers think of when it comes to congested roadways is the delay. Delays caused by traffic causes inconveniences," he said. "And at the end of the day, the afternoon rush hour is again a frustrating time because the conference is done and delegates want to go relax or want to visit places of interest within Nairobi, yet traffic is preventing them. This contributes to the loss of potential revenue from these travellers." Noorani said the poor design of the roads has heavily contributed to this menace, citing many roundabouts in a stretch of less than two kilometres, for instance, four roundabouts from Nyayo Stadium to University Way. Most of the roads in Nairobi have neither cyclists bike path nor walkways. "Our guests experience the frustration of being stuck in traffic jams for hours, which can also be tiring for someone who has just landed for a conference or a business meeting in Nairobi," he said. "Cars and buses stuck in grinding traffic cause many to miss or get late to their meetings or events that had brought them here." Noorani said traffic jam is expensive for meetings, incentives, conventions and exhibition organisers. "No one likes getting stuck in traffic, but for conference delegates, traffic jams aren’t just affecting their timeline, they negatively affect your entire conference business and even end up costing us revenue that these travellers would have spent when visiting places of interest." PrideInn sales and marketing director Farzana Zahir said lack of a scheduled public transport system and an elaborate nonmotorised transport network forces people to use personal vehicles over short distances, whereas they would have otherwise walked or cycled. The absence of a fully functional performing public transport infrastructure has led to overcrowding and poor service delivery in major parts of Nairobi. The projected number of vehicles in Nairobi alone is likely to be more than 1.35 million by 2030, going by the current rate of registration by the National Transport Safety Authority. NTSA registers around 7,000 vehicles monthly and about 90,000 every year in Nairobi. The growing middle class and easy accessibility of credit have necessitated this, according to the NTSA.