Silverstone Air by James Muhindi was impeccable at the Ngong Race Course to win The Kenya Gold Cup George Drew Challenge Series on Sunday. Western Ballad, jockeyed by Daniel Tanui and Clothes Horse steered by Leslie Sercombe were determined to cause upsets but Silverstone Air held his nerves to carry the day. The four runners stayed true to the bookies’ form guide as the Joe Karari-trained and Captain Somow-owned Silverstone Air won the 3,200m race in 4:02:8/10 minutes. Western ballad crossed the line a neck behind the winning colt whereas Clothes Horse closed the podium places trailing the former by three-quarter of a length. Running into Sunday’s race, Abby Rose had not displayed any grand performance and this did not change on the material day. The filly, jockeyed by Peter Kinuthia finished fourth, a distance behind Clothes Horse. In another event, Kalola steered by Leslie rocked the Mount Kulal Handicap ran over 1,000m to win in 1:01:5/10 minutes. In her four previous race, Kalola finished in in the top five positions except but without a win. She beat Risque jockeyed by Tanui by three and three-quarters lengths. The race for the third place was stiff and Istanbul (Patrick Mungai) who finished a length after Risque beat Peligroso rode by Daniel Miri by a head. Tenacious by Richard Kibet did not live up to her name as the filly settled for the fifth position trailing Peligroso one and a quarter lengths. “Kalola may have been unlucky in her previous runs but she's pushed harder. Today she gave it her all, kept responding to my asking and yeah, we win,” said Leslie. On her part, owner Carol Bremner noted: “I am really happy for Kalola. Today's win has got nothing to do with me but thanks to the trainer Patsy Sercombe and Leslie for riding it she won.”​​ Other results:  The Mount Homa Handicap 1,400m (1:25:7/10) My Sam by Kibet Moonlight Shadow by Leslie The Bar by Muhindi  The Mount Kipipiri Condition 1,600m (1:41:2/10) Rising Dragon by Leslie Party In The Park by Muhindi Respectable Jud by Miri  The Mount Ng’iro Handicap 1,800m (1:53:7/10) Tainted Love by Tanui Grace Kelly by Kibet Busselton by Mungai  The Mount Mtelo Maiden 1,000m (1:01:3/10)  Frankie by Leslie Sercombe Raju by Richard Kibet Bullet by James Muhindi