A rampaging Swamibapa thrashed Ruaraka Sports Club by eight wickets to maintain their hundred per cent record in the second edition of the Nairobi Invitational Twenty20 League yesterday. Rushab Patel’s hit 50 while Jadavji Bhimji’s bagged three wickets to help last year’s semi-finalists to their third straight win this season at Ruaraka Sports Club. Chasing 128 for a win, Swamibapa rode on an opening wicket stand of 62 between Rushab (64 not out off 47 balls) and Naman Patel (29 off 26 balls) to canter home in 17.2 overs and hand last year’s runners-up their third straight loss in this edition. “We haven’t been at our best. We have not played to our ability and we have now found ourselves winless in three matches. All departments have been a letdown. Batsmen have not been able to build innings while the bowlers have not been consistent,” Ruaraka skipper Purshotam Vekariya said after the match. The visitors didn’t take long to show their intention of winning the match as they punished the bowlers at will to rise to 49 for 0 in five overs. The 50-over bowled by the skipper himself proved to the most expensive with 18 coming off it. After the power-play, the run rate had risen to 9.48 keeping Swamibapa well into the driving seat. Things looked to dry for a while for Swamibapa from the seventh to the 13th over with only 25 runs being scored. This also resulted in two wickets of Naman and Irfan Karim (7). Naman was caught behind while Karim was stumped. Maurice Ouma (23 not out) walked in to hit the winning runs as Rushab savoured the victory at the non-strikers end with his 47-ball knock with 6 fours and 2 sixes. Earlier, while electing to bat, Ruaraka lost early wickets and never recovered with none of the batsmen being able to build any formidable stand. Swamibapa showed their intention of avenging their last year’s semifinal loss by starting off their bowling attack of Jadavji and Bundi. The two conceded 17 in two runs with Bhimji bagging the only wicket to fall in that period. Siblings James and Nehemiah Ngoche were brought in to replace the two openers and in four overs they were with the ball, Swamibapa were able to get a wicket for 18 runs. From there on, the runs flow dried up with Jignesh Hirani, Bhimji and James Ngoche calling the shots and bagging a number of wickets. With three overs to go, Ruaraka were on 85 for 7 but they found themselves adding on 43 more runs, thanks to Nehemiah Ngoche who conceded 31 in his last two overs. 