 Workers at the Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology have given the institution's managers up to Monday to appoint a VC and renew their health cover of they go on strike. Kenya University Staff Union secretary for the Masinde Muliro chapter Ronald Wamalwa on Wednesday said failure to appoint a substantive vice-chancellor was hampering operations. He asked Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha to fast track the appointment of the VC, three deputy vice-chancellors, the registrar and the librarian. The positions are currently being held by acting officers. “Interviews for these positions were conducted by the Public Service Commission eight months but no appointments have been made. The functions of the university have failed," Kusu chairman for MMUST chapter Onzere Mulongo said. He said it was difficult for the university to grow without substantive appointees in key offices. "We cannot allow Masinde Muliro University to add to the already crippled Mumias Sugar and Pan paper factories in this region,” Mulongo said. Wamalwa said the appointments were just one of the many issues they want to be addressed. “We have several grievances which we want the administration and the Ministry of Education to address as a matter of urgency. If not, then we shall disrupt operations in this university,” Wamalwa said. The officials addressed a press conference at the university's graduation square. The union said medical cover for staff expired last month and that workers were operating without insurance. “This is dangerous because health is very critical for the growth of any organisation. We have written to the management to discuss better medical insurance for us but we haven’t received their response,” Wamalwa said The workers also demanded the implementation of a document that seeks to address past injustices like unprocedural dismissal of staff, unhonoured collective bargaining agreements, downgrading of staff and non-promotion of workers. “The committee submitted the document to the management about a month ago for implementation but we haven’t got any response.” The union said the university management was mistreating its workers, citing an order that the workers park their bicycles and motorbikes outside the institution. Most casual workers go to work using their bicycles and motorbikes. “Despite making inquiries to the administration as to why they banned our motorbikes from entering the institution, no explanation has been given. The actions of the management have now reduced the university staff to second class citizens,” Onzere said.  Edited by p .obuya