An ex-CEO of a state corporation on the radar of Directorate of Criminal Investigations chief George Kinoti has developed a habit of drinking heavily, even in the wee hours. The depressed man laments that his life has been ruined by a top state official. He blames the fellow for luring him to engage in corruption, hence, his recent sacking. The ex-CEO claims the top official promised to protect him but failed to do so when the DCI pounced. The state officer has since blocked him on the phone as he struggles with a complex criminal case. The former executive claims he did not benefit from the dealings that landed him in trouble as the state officer’s aides took away all the loot. What became of the governorship bid by a Kisii MP in the diaspora? It is not clear why the vocal MP has gone slow in his initial bid to launch a vigorous campaign for the Kisii seat. Initially, the MP had kicked off aggressive weekend tours across the vast county in what was seen as groundwork for the race. However, with time, the politician's prospects appear to be waning amid talk by his closest allies that he could have abandoned his ambitions. There is talk the politician might have feared the fast-changing dynamics in the region under the tight grip of Governor James Ongwae. The picture in the jigsaw puzzle of a contrived accident involving a former county revenue collection contractor is becoming clearer. Sources tell Corridors that the man, who barely escaped death recently, was a target of cruel elimination to conceal the truth about revenue losses at the county. Apparently, four musketeers linked to a senior office connived to take over the contract and have been reporting false figures in order to share out the remaining bit. Corridors is apprised the 66 per cent drop in revenue could be artificial. Insiders say that the four and select county employees are the beneficiaries of the scam. A chief executive officer of a French-based oil company operating in Kenya is having sleepless nights after a Parliamentary committee initiated investigations into gross human rights violations and accusations of enslaving workers. The Chief Executive Officer and his team are said to have panicked over the probe by the Energy Committee. A fly on the wall tells Corridors that the chief executive has even created an ‘expense fund’ to shield the company from bad publicity. As to whether the CEO will succeed and get the MP to look the other way in the investigations remains to be seen