Kenya national boxing team débutante Beatrice Akoth is relishing the prospect of getting to the ring to represent the country for the first time when the qualifiers for the Tokyo 2020 Olympics get underway in Dakar, Senegal, this evening. Akoth, who trains at the Kariobangi Social Hall and fights in the featherweight category (57kg) bemoaned the debilitating sunny weather in Dakar but said they had enough time to acclimatise before the bell for the qualification program is sounded. “The weather here (Dakar) is the only challenge we have faced so far because it is hotter than how it was in our camp in Nanyuki. We are, however, adapting well. We trained well as a team in Nairobi and I feel I am in better shape. Personally,  I feel ready for the fights and hopefully, I will clinch a ticket to Tokyo,” she said. 'Hit Squad' team captain Nick Okoth (Beijing 2008), one of the three fighters in the squad with Olympics experience alongside vice-captain Elizabeth Andiego (London 2012) and middleweight Rayton Okwiri (Rio(2016), was eager to get into the ring and set the standards for his compatriots. “I feel ready and I cannot wait to go out and fight. This is the time we need to prove all the roadwork we engaged in up to Ndenderu and the hours spent in the gym were not for nothing. I hope I will be the first one to go to the ring. As commander and captain, I want to show my colleagues the path to success. I came here to win the ticket and nothing short of that will be acceptable to me,” said Okoth. “I have been to the Olympics and I know the benefits of making it to the games. This is where you meet the best fighters in the world and I am determined to be in Tokyo,” added Okoth. All African Games silver medalist Shaffi Bakari said after a thorough month-long training camp in Nairobi and Nanyuki, their fate now lies in the hands of God. “God is everything to me and I put my faith in my progress to him. We finished our preparations and now all we are doing here is to polish up on our skills. I am anxious to know my opponent so that I can be ready when I get to the ring,” said the flyweight pugilist. The draw for the fights was due to be done last evening.