They are simple residents from low-income estates in Nakuru town, but they dined with former President Daniel arap Moi at State House for most of the time he was there. The 12 women remember with nostalgia the first time they ever talked with the then President. "We had been looking for him and waiting for him along the Nakuru-Kabarak road until he stopped and addressed us," says Faith Wanjiru. She says their relationship with Moi started in 1990 and lasted 12 years until he handed over power to Mwai Kibaki in 2012. Wanjiru adds that Moi's security was tight but their persistence worked. Asked what they talked about with the former President, Wanjiru said Moi liked chatting as well as updating himself with the local trends and issues. "He used to send the then Nakuru District Commissioner, Kinuthia Mbugua, to fetch us and take us to State House," adds Jenerica Njoki. Njoki remembers how the DC, who would later become the first Nakuru Governor, would drive them to State House in a green Land Rover. She added that they would be ferried to Moi's meetings in different parts of Nakuru county and the neighbouring regions of Narok, Kericho and Laikipia by the late Kihika Kimani. "Moi was a generous man because he used to feed us at State House and give us goodies to take home to our children," Njoki said. Njoki said the former Head of State paid school fees for her children and gave them stipends for their families. She says Moi used to pass by the State House in Nakuru every Monday on his way to Nairobi and Friday enroute his home in Kabarak. "He loved Nakuru and was always here during the weekend but did not spend nights at State House," said Njoki. She adds that unlike the other three Presidents who usually spend December holidays in Mombasa, Moi used to celebrate Christmas and New Year's Eve in Nakuru. "He used to shop and distribute foodstuff to needy families and children's homes in Nakuru, in fact we have the oldest home in the town called Arap Moi Children's home," she adds.