Lamu residents say the health sector has been deteriorating since Cuban doctors were withdrawn about a year ago. They and other doctors in the Northeast were withdrawn and redeployed following the kidnapping on April 12 last year of two Cuban doctors in Mandera. There is no word on their condition. They were snatched by al Shabaab militants. Checks by the Star last week revealed that many facilities are unable to handle medical emergencies and have been forced to refer even the simplest of cases to hospitals in other counties like Kilifi and Mombasa. The majority of patients have been forced to seek services in private health facilities that are costly. Residents are calling for the return of the Cuban specialists to help deal with the many unnecessary referrals. Since the departure of Cuban specialists Liliana Casos, (orthopaedic surgeon) and Dennis Orozco (family physician), most health facilities have remained without the necessary replacements. On April 15, the national government recalled all Cuban doctors operating in counties on the Kenya-Somalia border including Lamu, Tana River, Wajir and Garissa. The duo had served for just about 10 months since they reported in July 2018. Residents said the government has not made any efforts to replace the Cubans and other specialists. Many want the doctors redeployed to Lamu, saying security has improved. “The Cubans were loved and trusted. Their absence has caused patients untold misery and we are now hitting headlines due to how bad things have gotten. We need them back,” Omar Mbwana said. Lamu elder Sharif Salim urged the national government to reconsider bringing back the Cuban specialists. “Elders ought to have consulted but we learnt about it through the media. We want the Cubans back before we all die here. If their concern was security, let them know it's okay,” Salim said. Health CEC Anne Gathoni, however, said the county had done everything to ensure residents can access quality healthcare in all hospitals and dispensaries. She denied that the absence of the Cubans had dealt the health sector a blow "as other specialists have since been employed to replace them". She asked whether residents only prefer "coloured doctors" as opposed to fellow Kenyans "who are equally trained". Gathoni said it was unlikely the Cuban doctors would return to Lamu anytime soon. Edited by R.Wamochie