In what MCAs termed as sabotage at City Hall, the county’s new Security and Compliance chief officer Patrick Mwakio is yet to receive a letter of acceptance for him to execute his duties. This is despite him being seconded by the National Police Service to Nairobi county almost two weeks ago after his predecessor, Tito Kilonzi, was recalled for redeployment on January 27, 2020. Appearing before the County Assembly’s Legal and Justice Committee last week on Thursday, Mwakio said he has not performed his duties for the last two weeks, despite Kilonzi handing over the office and documents. “I was given the letters from the national government but have not been formally received because, at this juncture, I have not received any letter from the human resource. The letter from the county will be to advise and enumerate me on what I'm supposed to do, “Mwakio told the MCAs. Inspectorate director Joseph Kipsang confirmed they have looked for the county secretary to inquire about the matter but has not been spotted at City Hall for the past two weeks. A letter of acceptance comes from the County Public Service Board and is given to all the chief officers at the county. The committee, led by its vice chairman Moses Ogeto, asked Mwakio what he has been doing at the county for the last two weeks. "I come in the morning, get the order of the day and we work hand in hand with the director of Inspectorate, where we advise each other. I cannot perform any duty without the letter of acceptance," he said. Mwakio told the committee that such a case should not happen in a civilised organisation. "It shows that one is not wanted. I expected that I will be inducted and be given the letter to start my work. I 'm hanging not knowing where to go or what to do," he added. Mwakio further shocked the committee when he said that he met former acting county secretary Leboo Morintat who directed him to look for the governor to get the letter. "After a week I personally went to the county secretary to seek the letter but he told me to look for the governor for him to give me the letter". "I come into an organisation where I expect systems to be working. After reporting,  I met my predecessor and he introduced me to a few directors in the department. He said I will be introduced to the county secretary by Kipsang," he said. Dandora Four MCA Francis Otieno Ngesa said there was "a lot of hidden agenda in the issue facing Mwakio". Minority leader David Mberia said the acting county secretary should be interrogated on why there was a delay. “The law is clear on the breakdown of information and what we see here is purely sabotage. We have county officials who are not willing to welcome the new chief officer to the sector,” he said. “ This is a well-planned choreographed sabotage because it appears that there is deliberate motive to frustrate the new chief officer,” Minority chief whip Peter Imwatok said. The committee resolved to sit again this week on Wednesday to look further into the matter. The board, Morintat, new acting county secretary Justus Kathenge and all directors in the Inspectorate department will be expected to attend the meeting. 