The late President Daniel Arap Moi shaped the careers of Kenya's star politicians including President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto. During his 24-year stranglehold on power, Moi identified promising greenhorns, training them to be successful politicians striding the shifting terrain. Though his slogan was 'peace, love and unity', he was a ruthless man of steely determination who didn't like to be crossed. Those who dissented or disobeyed him paid the price. Rebels were vanquished without pity. Moi also talked of forgiveness. Some of the lessons were absorbed by his students, some more steely and acute than others. Darker lessons may have been taught as well but the first lesson was patriotism. His acolytes include ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, ex-vice President Kalonzo Musyoka and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula. Others include former Ministers Henry Kosgey, David Musila, Dalmas Otieno, Franklin Bett and Shariff Nassir. Veteran provincial administrators including Yusuf Haji, Martin Wambora and Simeon Nyachae owe much of their acumen to Moi. On Wednesday, Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen said Moi influenced the rise of many political stars. “Former President Moi provided shoulders for many politicians to become who they are today. The people he inspired are both in government and in opposition,” the Elgeyo Marakwet senator said. He termed Moi a fallen giant who never shied from inspiring young aspirants to power. Uasin Gishu Senator Magret Kamar, whose husband Nicholas Biwott served as a powerful minister in Moi's government, called the former President a "political bridge." "Moi helped so many people in this country including politicians you are seeing today. Personally I am what I am because of what Moi did for me,” Kamar said. Moi appointed Kamar a member of the East Africa Legislative Assembly in 1999, a position she held until 2006 before she was elected MP for Eldoret East in the 2007 polls. Ruto, the man seeking to succeed President Kenyatta when he retires in 2022, epitomises Moi's art of political mentoring. The retired President plucked Ruto, then a naïve university graduate who was offering tutorials in the North Rift, in a most unlikely way that would thrust the devout Inland Church Christian to stardom. Oblivious of what awaited him, Ruto had initially, while at the university, been a frequenter of State House while leading the Christian Union Choir to entertain state guests. The real transformation came in 1991 when, as head of the choir at a local AIC church he belted out worship songs and spoke a moving prayer that touched Moi who was present. Ruto's first-ever encounter with President Moi would later change his life fortunes forever. He soon became a central figure in the Youth for Kenya (YK92) that campaigned for Moi's re-election in 1992. Ruto would later plunge into politics riding on the Y92 fame to mount one of the rare political moments that turned tables against Kanu stalwarts in Moi's backyard in 1997 elections. Ruto surprised many when he floored experienced politicians like the late Reuben Chesire, an ally of Moi, to bag the Eldoret North Parliamentary seat on a Kanu ticket. “Moi had actually given Ruto his goodwill to run in 1997 against his trusted ally Chesire because he saw in him an ability to tackle opponents in his government as he prepared to retire,” political analyst Felix Odhiambo said. With his influence, as he planned his retirement, Moi tapped Uhuru, the scion of Kenya's founding President Jomo Kenyatta, and named him chairman of the Kenya Tourism Board in 1999. Two years earlier in the 1997 polls, Uhuru had been defeated by Nairobi-based architect Moses Muihia in his bid to reclaim the Gatundu South Parliamentary seat initially held by his father. It would later dawn on Kenyans that Moi was laying his grand succession plan after he appointed Kenyatta as a Kanu-nominated MP in 2001 after Mark Too was 'persuaded' to step down. Moi then named Kenyatta minister in the influential docket of Local Government. As the Moi succession politics intensified, the President later firmly established Uhuru within the Kanu leadership structures and appointed him the First Vice Chairman of the party, literally making him his deputy. This made Uhuru the favoured heir to the Kanu throne and a leading light in the race to succeed Moi who lost to Mwai Kibaki and finally was stepping down after his 24-year rule. In the nominations for the 2002 presidential elections, Moi influenced Uhuru's nomination as the Kanu presidential candidate in a move that attracted fierce condemnation from party stalwarts. Moses Mudavadi Mululu, then Sabatia MP, was a close ally of President Moi following their ties going back to Baringo in the 1950s. Moi was a teacher in Baringo working under Mudavadi who was an education officer. Mudavadi would later follow Moi into politics and became MP for Sabatia and an influential minister within Moi's government. Following the death of Mudavadi, then a powerful local government minister in 1989, Moi tapped Musalia who was a fresh university graduate at the age of 29  to succeed his father. Musalia would later win the Sabatia seat by a landslide and Moi promptly appointed him Cabinet minister, making him the youngest minister at the time. The relationship between the Moi and the Mudavadi family has been tight, leading to Baringo Senator Gideon Moi's decision to support the ANC leader's presidential quest in 2013. On Wednesday, former Cabinet minister Chris Obure told the Star that Moi was an inspiring leader with a great vision and commitment to the people. “I had the opportunity to serve in his administration as an assistant minister and Cabinet minister. Mzee Moi was actually a man who gave opportunities to many people to serve the country,” the ex-Bobasi MP said. Obure served as an assistant minister for 12 years and a further four years as minister; he handled the Finance docket during Moi's tenure. Former Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka is also among Moi's acolytes. After completing his studies in Cyprus in 1979, Kalonzo tried his luck in politics during the 1983 General Elections when he ran unsuccessfully for Kitui North MP. With Kanu then being the only party fielding candidates, Kalonzo had no option. However, only two years later, in 1985 the Kitui North seat was vacated and Musyoka won subsequent by-elections on Moi's Kanu party ticket, thus becoming an MP at the age of 32. His parliamentary victory would later offer him a great political platform that would see him serve as MP for about 30 years to 2013. In 1986 he was appointed Assistant Minister for Works, Housing and Physical Planning, serving until 1988. Through Moi's influence, Kalonzo served in various capacities in the Kanu government including being an assistant minister and Cabinet minister. He also became Kanu's National Organising Secretary from 1988 to 2002. As a young lawyer who had worked very closely with the government, Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula was first nominated to Parliament by Moi after the first multi-party elections of 1992. Earlier, Moi had named Wetang'ula the chairman of the Electricity Regulatory Board as he tightened his grip on power. Wetang'ula praised Moi for having catapulted him into politics. “He served for 24 years in the office of the President and nobody is likely to spend such a time in State House. He held my hand as I cut my teeth on politics," Wetang'ula said. As Moi built political careers, he also dismantled those of his critics who did not toe his line as his determination and grip became harsher.   