Disquiet has arisen over the timing of the Kenya Simbas training sessions, prompting ire from top Kenya Cup clubs. The Kenya Rugby Union released a provisional training squad of 40 players to start training this Sunday but the clubs are unhappy that with the Kenya Cup and Enterprise Cup entering the crucial phase, it will jeopardise performances. The clubs, who sought anonymity, said it will be difficult to release players with both competitions entering the business end. One of the clubs' chairman who did not want to be quoted said: " I have players who have been called up and that means after the Saturday's game, they shower and board a night bus to Nairobi to train on Sunday and come back to Western all in less than 24 hours which is not right,” he added. The Kenya Cup playoffs are slated for March 14 with the semis set for a week later and the final on April 4. The Enterprise Cup quarters are on March 7th with the semis on March 28 and the final on April 18. The Simbas will have a proposed training camp over the Easter period in April. When contacted, Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) chairman, Oduor Gangla, said they will work out modalities on the training schedules for all the players called up. “I think the clubs have nothing to worry about. This just training squad and very soon, we will sit down with the clubs to work out the training schedule,” he said. ] Gangla said he is cognizant of the fact that the Kenya and Enterprise cups are entering crucial points. “ We are aware and we are not taking the competitions lightly. But all around the world including South Africa, New Zealand and England, their national teams have training camps during the season. Therefore, this is something we must start cultivating,” noted Gangla. The team will be training every Sunday, Monday and Wednesday mornings and midweek sessions will purely focus on strength and conditioning. The Simbas are in Pool B and their first assignment is on May 30th against Morocco before heading to Cote D’Ivoire for their second match on  June 27. On July 11, they will host Uganda before welcoming Zimbabwe a week later to Nakuru ( July 18) these two being Victoria Cup fixtures. This training squad will, however, be reviewed at the end of the 15s season by the technical team and a final provisional squad will be named. Forwards Andrew Simony (University of Johannesburg, South Africa), Elisha Koronya (Kenya Harlequin), Ian Njenga (Nondescripts), Bonface Ochieng (Kenya Harlequin), Frank Mutuku (Nondescripts), Toby Francombe (Boroughmuir, Scotland), Ian Masheti (Resolution Impala Saracens), Ephraim Oduor (Kabras Sugar), Melvin Thairu (Kenya Harlequin), Malcolm Onsando (Kenya Harlequin), Emmanuel Silungi (Homeboyz), George Nyambua (Kabras Sugar), Joshua Chisanga (Homeboyz), Samuel Were (Menengai Oilers), Fidel Oloo (Nondescripts), Monate Akuei (Top Fry Nakuru), Cameron Coulson (Richmond, England), Brian Amaitsa (Nondescripts), Mark Mutuku (Notre Dame College, USA), Elkeans Musonye (Resolution Impala Saracens), Steve Anthony Otieno (Resolution Impala Saracens) BACKS Samson Onsomu (Resolution Impala Saracens), Samuel Asati (KCB), Barry Robinson Young (Kabras Sugar), Dominic Coulson (University of Exeter, England), Anthony Omondi (Stanbic Mwamba), Charles Kuka (USIU Martials), Johnstone Mung'au (Kabras Sugar), John Okoth (Top Fry Nakuru), Charles Tendwa (South Coast Pirates), Vincent Onyala (KCB), Austin Sikutwa (Menengai Oilers), Eliud Mulakoli (USIU Martials), Timothy Okwemba (Menengai Oilers), Billy Omondi (Resolution Impala Saracens), Beldad Ogeta (Menengai Oilers), Geoffrey Okwach (KCB), Michael Kimwele (KCB), Jacob Ojee (KCB), Jeff Mutuku (Notre Dame College, USA), Isaac Njoroge (KCB), Anthony Odhiambo (Resolution Impala Saracens), Andrew Matoka (Strathmore Leos)