A team of four Cabinet secretaries have toured Murang’a county to inspect national government projects ahead of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s visit in two weeks. Fred Matiang’I (Interior), Joe Mucheru (ICT), Peter Munya (Trade) and James Macharia (Transport) toured the Sh6 billion Northern Collector Tunnel that will boost water supply to Nairobi. They also visited Nginda irrigation project after meeting with local administrators at Muthithi in Kigumo. Matiang’i said they were conducting a preparatory visit to establish the status of the projects so the President can commission them. Uhuru was to visit the Central region to launch the projects, which include the Kenol Sagana Marua dual carriageway, but the visit was postponed. Matiang’i commended the local security team for having an updated deaths-and-births register. He also noted that the meeting with the administrators had formulated a framework to eradicate bhang smoking and second-generation brews that have been blamed on increased insecurity. He said the government will intensify its crackdown on crime. "Any criminality, whether it is in small groups or gangs that are coming up, we will map the area and our county security team has been completely briefed and is ready to ensure people live in peace to facilitate development," Matiang’i said. "Local leaders have been vocal about the issues that have been affecting security and we have assured them that we are going to deploy effectively to ensure these concerns are addressed." Kangari market in Kigumo will also get connected to water for the first time. The team said the government is using its resources to provide the priority services. For his part, Macharia reiterated that the government is working on major infrastructural projects that will spur development. One such project is the Mau Mau road from Kimabu to Nyeri that was by freedom fighters. He said the Sh540 million road will connect the Northern Corridor in Thika to the Lapsset Corridor in Isiolo. The project will be launched by the President in mid-March. Mucheru said the government is looking for a place to set up Ajira digital centres that empower the youth by giving them access to information. "As the government rolls out major projects, we are looking for areas where can set up such centres to provide free Wi-Fi for youths," he said. Munya said he is happy with the numerous irrigation projects the government is initiating to transform lives. The ministers later attended the homecoming ceremony of Wambui Nyutu who was appointed as a commissioner in the National Cohesion and Integration Commission earlier in the year. Those present at the event included MPs.