Last year we had the LG TVs equipped with Artificial Intelligence (AI) where the users can interact with their screens. It had the new feature, screen mirroring that allows the user to connect to a Wi-Fi network to cast content from the phone or tablet to the TV without pairing over Bluetooth. This year they have come back again launching Apple TV in their 2019 and 2020 LG smart TVs. You can now easily access it from LG Home Launcher where it gives you the ability to subscribe and watch Apple TV+ which is Apple’s new video subscription service that features Apple popular originals like; ‘The Morning Show’, ‘See’, ‘Servant’ and ‘Little America’. Since LG TVs offer a cinematic experience with the best picture and sound, Apple TV is an ideal match for the application. LG being an early adopter of the Dolby Technology, the latest TVs continue to support Dolby Vision which offers users the most immersive viewing experience with truly vivid colors, greater depth, and stunningly realistic sounds. The 2019 TVs were fitted to support Apple AirPlay2 which allows users using their iPad, iPhone or Mac to directly mirror or share content from their devices to the TV. They can also play music on the TV and sync it with other devices compatible with AirPlay2 anywhere in the house. The TV also supports the Apple HomeKit that lets the users easily and securely control their TV with the Home App on their iPhone or iPad or by voice using Siri. This will enable them to power on or off the TV, change volume, switch inputs and more. With the Apple TV app on their LG TVs, users can subscribe to Apple TV channels where there are direct subscriptions to premium videos both available online and offline. They can also access their iTunes video library and buy or rent over 100, 000 movies and TV shows. This update means that now one does not need to buy a separate Apple TV 4K box unless one wants access to Apple’s TV OS app Store. For instance, Apple Arcade games cannot be played without a dedicated Apple TV hardware. This application will be available on all the LG 2019 TVs in over 80 countries. For the 2018 TVs, they will be available later this year.