Former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale has received criticism from Kenyans on Twitter after he posted a picture with nurses smiling, holding an x-ray sheet. Khalwale was at Kakamega hospital on Monday after a stampede at Kakamega Primary School that left 19 pupils dead on Monday evening. He received backlash from netizens who were not amused why the former lawmaker was smiling amid sorrow following the incident. Khalwale, however, defended himself saying the picture was in fact not a selfie and he was in the ICU examining patients chest x-rays. "Sometimes it helps to look for intelligent people around u for an explanation. That ain't a selfie. We are in ICU examining the patient's chest x-ray," he said. Here are some comments from netizens who felt offended by the picture; As much as we condole with the parents who have lost their loved ones, it is       WRONG for you to rush to the hospital and take pictures with nurses trying to examine an x-ray while some of them are smiling sheepishly Sometimes leave the camera at home and help -Amakanji  Thomas In the midst of the Kakamega Primary School tragedy what does the nurse and the other find so amusing in the X-ray? -Chris Odero Its sad day for Kenya. Its even more disgusting to see a Doctor using such painful moments to do photo shoot for personal political gains. Wickedness of the highest order Doc.. -PhillKamara In the midst of the #KakamegaStampede what did the nurses and @KBonimtetezi find to smile about? I tell we have a rotten society especially the political class. Khalwale is evil and sick @fridaygeorge -Dennis Rapenda Replying to @Rapendaraps @KBonimtetezi and @fridaygeorgeMy question is, "What was @KBonimtetezi doing with a doctor's tools of trade while publicly examining X-RAY report of a patient when we know his practicing license was withdrawn?" Even then what happened to confidentiality in medical practice. That's a crowd!! -Clement Police Khalwale is not new to social media trolling since in November last year, during the Kibra by-election he was made fun of after he was pictured carrying stones and engaging rogue youths in hit and duck.