Kenyan political parties are sprouting like mushrooms. But are they adhering to tough requirements spelt out in the Political Parties Act? A senior party official was heard saying even the biggest political parties do not have offices in at least half the 47 counties as legally required. Sources tell Corridors two new political parties are lined up for registration. They are The Great Nationhood Party with lightning as its symbol and the Universal Unity Party with a crown as its symbol. They are said to have applied for provisional registration. The owners behind the outfits remain unknown. Maybe Acting Registrar of Political Parties Anne Nderitu can clarify the compliance status of all Kenyan parties. Are they gobbling taxpayer’s money and violating the law? While it is not surprising, it appears unclear why a senior government official is busy mobilising his people for 'thank you' meetings following his elevation in government. The official has been sponsoring press conferences addressed by politicians from his region ostensibly to thank President Uhuru Kenyatta for the  'extraordinary' appointment. From hotels in Nairobi to his native backyard, pressers are organised to thank the President as if the government official is out to prove a point. Whether the message is directed at his critics or government functionaries sceptical of his credentials, the campaign is vicious. Now, let's see him get down to work. A county boss once accused of feigning a health condition to escape answering audit queries, is hard hit with the lull in BBI campaigns. The governor had transformed himself into a heavyweight crusader. His critics saw this as an opportunity for him to escape scrutiny over matters of financial probity in the county. Actually, for months he hibernated in a hospital to receive treatment as colleagues were on the hot seat at the Senate's CPAIC panel. Lately, the governor is perturbed the campaigns have slowed. He now has nothing to keep himself busy. He can't visit his county where he faces a barrage of criticism. The BBI campaigns had given him a political and social lifeline to traverse the country. It may seem typical for top officials to bully junior staff. But some junior staff at a state agency in the water department are complaining of a domineering non-executive chairperson who monitors their daily reporting time The politician was reported for demanding the CEO buy him a Toyota Prado. After this was unprocedurally secured, the chairperson demanded an office. With a car and an office, bossman reports to work by 6.30 am, then phons staff, asking why they are late. Does he know the parastatal management guidelines on reporting time? Maybe he should read them. 