Kenya’s Greg Snow relinquished his leadership to Rwanda’s Aloys Nsabimana after returning scores of par, to take his gross score to 2-under par, 140 at the Karen leg of the Safari Tour. The overnight leader hit a double-bogey at the par-4, third, a birdie at the fifth and eighth, before bogeying the ninth for a turning score of 36. A further two birdies at the 12th and 18th, coupled with a bogey at the 16th saw him returning a score of par, to relinquish the lead to Nsabimana. Nsabimana returned a blemish-free scorecard of 3-under par, 68, after round two, to take the outright lead on a gross score of 3-under par, 139. Aloys posted identical scores of 34 on both nines with two birdies on either side at the par-four ninth and17th while holding par through the rest of the holes. Speaking after his round, Aloys was happy with his performance and hoped to replicate the same in the coming rounds. “I played well today, I placed the ball where I wanted and I did not take many risks despite unforgiving roughs. I am looking forward to more of the same tomorrow and I hope I can keep up these scores to the end of the tournament.” Nsabimana now sits one stroke ahead of Johnnie Walker-sponsored Snow. Absa-sponsored Ooko who started the round in T9, returned a score of 3-under par, 68, to see him move into third place, on a gross score of 1-under par, 141. Royal Nairobi Club pro started his round with a birdie at the par-3 second, before bogeying the par-3 fourth and following it up with a birdie at the par-5 sixth. He went on to complete his front nine-round with back-to-back birdies at the 8th and 9th for a turning score of 2-under par, 33. He opened his back nine run with a further two birdies at the 11th and 12th followed by a bogey at the 13th, going on to hold par through the rest of the holes for a round score of 68. A total of 21 players made the cut which was eventually set at 8-over par. Among those who missed the chance to play in the third and fourth rounds include the winner of the Royal Nairobi leg, Anthony Juma, Uganda’s Philip Kasozi, Mohit Mediratta and Riz Charania. Round three action tees off tomorrow at 8 am, with the players now focused on a stake of the Sh3 million prize kitty and the last chance to qualify for the 2020 Magical Kenya Open.