The High Court in Siaya has ordered a retrial of a defilement convict after a magistrate failed to record the language used in proceedings. Justice Roselyn Aburili last week acquitted Romanus Andere who was convicted of defiling a 15-year-old in November 2017 in Gem, Siaya. Andere had denied the charges but was found guilty by a trial court and sentenced to 20 years in prison. Aggrieved by the decision, he appealed. "For want of the language in which the witnesses, including the appellant and his witness, gave evidence, I find and hold that the trial of the appellant was fatally vitiated. I quash the appellant’s conviction and set aside the sentence of 20 years imprisonment imposed on him,” Aburili said. According to sections 197 and 198 of the Criminal Procedure Code, failure to show, demonstrably, the language used in such proceedings, will, in an appropriate case, affect the quality or efficiency of the trial. Aburili noted that the magistrate had failed to state the language used during the trial, which she said was critical as it goes to the root of the case. "The trial court record shows that albeit the witnesses having been sworn to testify, and were cross-examined, there is nothing on record to show in which language the witnesses, whether for the prosecution or defence testified,” she said. She affirmed that the trial court had an obligation to indicate the specific language used by witnesses. "It is stated English, Kiswahili and Dholuo were used. However, there is no indication as to which of the three languages the witnesses testified in." On that basis alone, she allowed the appeal, asserting that the Constitution guarantees every accused person the right to have the assistance of an interpreter without payment if he cannot understand the language used. Aburili said the law gives accused persons the right to be tried in a language they understand and the same be recorded. The judge noted that in this case, the plea was taken in Kiswahili in December 2017 and thereafter the prosecution witnesses were lined up to testify against the appellant commencing with the complainant. "It is the responsibility of the trial courts to ensure compliance with those provisions. Trial courts are not only obliged to ensure compliance with the provisions, but they are also obliged to show in their records that the provisions have been complied with," she said. "There is no reason why a trial court should leave an appellate court to presume that the provisions must have been complied with while it can easily be demonstrated by the record that compliance did, in fact, take place." Aburili said the minor was also not examined on the level of intelligence and obligation to tell the truth under oath. The judge quashed the conviction and released Andere. However, in the interest of justice, Aburili ordered for a retrial of the appellant has served only two of the 20 years. “I order that the appellant be produced before Bondo principal magistrate’s court for retrial before any other magistrate competent to hear and determine the case against him, considering that Hon E.N Wasike has since been transferred from the station,” she ruled.