Agriculture plays an important role in our economy and in order for us to increase our yields we need to infuse technology in this sector. Farmers can now breathe a sigh of relief as they can be able to take care of their farms from anywhere using various mobile applications. The AgVault 2.0 mobile app allows users to easily fly entire fields using the DJI Phantom 4, Phantom 3 and Inspire drones. It also allows the operator a selection of the UAV’s altitude, sensor configuration, overlap, sideslip and an area on the field to survey. Interfacing with the agricultural tool or any sensor enables the farmers to instantly leverage crop health imagery collected with the mobile app any UAV, Satellite and manned maincraft. The user can also view high resolution RGB, near-infrared (NIR) and normalized difference vegetation index imagery immediately after capturing data with a UAV. Users can easily identify a problem area, quickly view plant-specific photos and address areas of concern in real time as the app quickly analyzes and assembles data into a functional field map. You can share, annotate and export data and images from this application. This saves the farmers time and money while it helps to increase their annual yields. It prepares and formats data for export into conventional stitching tools. This software is sensor, drone and implement agnostic. It is also compatible with the most popular prescriptive data analytic tools. The iSOYLScout app makes recording, monitoring and review of in-field problems and variation easier for farmers. Farmers and anyone else helping to manage the business are able to log features and problems on the land while they are in the field. It does not require cellular signal or Wi-Fi connection when scouting making it user friendly. You can also record any useful information at a specific point on the land and you can edit as well as add a list of points pertinent to their farm. The information can be noted via GPS or manually. The scouted data after completion is uploaded to a DropBox or OneDrive using either cellular signal or Wi-Fi. Those given permission to access the account can get the shape files that describe the areas, points, comments and photos which have been recorded. This is useful when farmers want to share information with their advisers for planning and management purposes. For the shape files that have been logged in the field they can be viewed in most types of precision farming software. Yara CheckIT is an agricultural app that gives farmers a photographic library of crops to allow a simple and fast identification of possible nutrient deficiencies. The users can reference photos of deficiencies in high definition, filter them by symptoms, the location of the symptom on the crop or by the suspected cause of the symptom. Once the cause of the deficiency is established, the app gives further information on how the deficiency affects that crop, what soil types are prone to this type of deficiency and what factors will make a deficiency worse. It also provides a fertilizer recommendation to treat the identified nutrient deficiency as well as alternative products which allow preventive treatment for the following growing season. It is customized and localized for the crops and language specific to the target country. It has been designed to operate in rural locations with low signal strength. This means that farmers will be able to have on the spot, on demand field analysis and recommendation for a crop deficiency to help them improve crop quality and increase yields.