The government has stepped up efforts to ensure fake drugs do not reach patients. The Pharmacy and Poisons Board last week kicked off a process of assessing the quality of drugs and health products in the country. The board’s post-marketing surveillance targets 20 counties and the process is expected to take 90 days. Acting head of PMS Dr Karim Wanga yesterday said in the next one week samples collected will be taken to the National Quality Control Laboratory. The final report is expected to be out around the second week of June, Wanga said. The focus will be essential medicines, antibiotics, vaccines, drugs used in treatment of noncommunicable diseases and those for child and maternal care. Falsified and substandard medicines lead to poisoning, untreated and resistant diseases, treatment failure and early death. They may contain wrong ingredients or no active ingredients at all to cure illnesses, thus posing dangers of even death to unsuspecting persons. “The objective is to assess quality and safety of essential medicines and vaccines as a central component of universal healthcare coverage,” Wanga said. According to the World Health Organisation, 700,000 people are killed globally every year following consumption of counterfeit medicines, with Africa contributing 100,000 of these fatalities. It is estimated that up to 10 per cent of drugs in low and middle income countries are of poor quality or outright fakes. This in turn has cost economies up to $200 billion a year and contribute to the increasing burden of disease resistance. “Sampled products will be subjected to analysis and the outcome used to inform appropriate regulatory actions such as recall or quarantine of failed products,” Wanga said. The board has come up with a number of interventions such as putting an automated system in place. A system of reporting suspected poor quality medicines and suspected adverse drug reactions has also been established and this helps the board monitor medicines. “We have deployed various technologies such as the spectrometer (the portable device that scans medicines for active ingredients). If there is no active ingredient, we seize, quarantine or destroy the drugs and issue an alert,” board CEO Fred Siyoi said. More than 80 per cent of drugs in the Kenyan market are imported from India and China but should a shortage arise in the country, unscrupulous traders take advantage to fill the gap.