Kenya Sevens skipper Andrew Amonde is a doubt for the Los Angeles and Vancouver later this month. The veteran forward picked a knock on his knee in Shujaa's 19-5 loss to New Zealand and will have to be assessed in the next few days before the team resumes training next week with a short turn round time to the North American leg of the circuit. Kenya Sevens' team manager Eric Ogweno termed the injury unpredictable and hoped he will be available for the Los Angeles and Vancouver events.  “We have to wait  for the doctor's report and see what next,” added Ogweno. Kenya Sevens head coach cum technical director, Paul Feeney, said the team has learnt their mistakes from Sydney and hopes for a polished performance in USA in the next three weeks. “I am proud of what the boys are doing and as much as the results in Sydney were disappointing, we must move on and work on winning games in the next tournament,” added Feeney. The New Zealand tactician said the focus on training will be on the restart reception, execution in attack and defensive alignment alongside improving their discipline. “We have very limited time and all those areas have to be addressed. I believe we will get better,” added Feeney.  The team will be named on February 20 before departing for Los Angeles on February 22. Powerhouse forward Oscar Ouma, playmaker Sammy Oliech and utility back Dennis Ombachi are in contention for a place in the squad having trained with the rest of the squad last month. Feeney said competition is healthy and welcomed them to the squad training sessions” Its good to have them back but thy must train their socks off and be at par with everyone else in the side” added Feeney. Shujaa lie 11th on the log with 26 having garnered a point from Sydney. Elsewhere,  Kenya Rugby Union have announced the schedule for the Stanbic Bank National Sevens Circuit 2020. The circuit will be contested over six rounds between July and September 2020. Action kicks off in the Mount Kenya region with the Kabeberi Sevens on July 25-26  in Meru before heading to Kenya’s capital city Nairobi for the Christie Sevens the following week. Teams will then travel to Western Kenya for the third round on  August 15-16 in Kakamega before making the journey to the coast for the Driftwood Sevens from  August 22-23 in Mombasa. The fifth round will take place in the Lakeside when Kisumu hosts the Dala Sevens on September 5-6 with the circuit finale happening at the Prinsloo Sevens in the Central Rift Valley town of Nakuru on September 12-13     