I was a lecturer in political science at the University of Nairobi. Daniel Toroitich arap Moi had succeeded Jomo Kenyatta as Kenya's second President in August 1978 upon his death. We were now in 1980 and Moi decided to appoint Jaramogi Oginga Odinga as chairman of the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board. The old KPU fraternity was elated, so in general were wananchi who had always appreciated Jaramogi's principled criticism of the excesses of the Kenyatta regime. A short but disappointingly brief journey of reconciliation between Jaramogi and Moi had started. Wind the clock forward to later that year. Something had been cooking when it was announced from the deep echelons of the Kanu hierarchy that Odongo Omamo would resign as MP for Bondo and Jaramogi would be running for the seat. At that time, Jaramogi was already spearheading fund raising efforts for the building of the Ramogi Institute for Advanced Technology, otherwise called RIAT. The Honourable Robert Ouko, then minister and MP for Kisumu Rural, was leading the drive in Parliament while Ramogi Achieng' Oneko was the overall chairman of the drive. A date was chosen for the collection of funds in Kisumu and Moi was to be our Guest of Honour. I was in the Publicity Committee with Dr Atieno Odhiambo, Walter Nyawanda and Odinge Odera as our chairman. Our task was to produce a brochure for the fundraising detailing the aims and objectives of the projects and appealing for national and international support. We were also to profile President Moi and Jaramogi and write speeches for each to deliver on that momentous day. Atieno and I were tasked writing with the speeches. Odinge and Nyawanda, both journalists with immense experience, were to edit the brochure. We were to report "regularly and consistently" (Jaramogi's directives) to both Jaramogi and Achieng' on the progress on the "broko" as Jaramogi called it. The two things going on simultaneously became a nightmare to us. We knew Raila and a team of politicians were busy organising Jaramogi's re-entry to Parliament. But in a closed meeting in Oneko's office at Uniafrique House we discussed the possibility of another group in Kanu bent on sabotaging the project. Mukaru Ng'ang' a, then a tutorial fellow in the department of History, came to brief Oneko about this. Oneko called us, the "broko" team, to join in this discourse. Jaramogi was all over the place mobilising the public to grow cotton and, to be expected, popularising the RIAT fund raising as well as his new advent into electoral politics. Journalists were after him. Oneko briefed us to help manage the marauding journalists. The week before the fund raising, Jaramogi was to travel to Mombasa on a Friday and address wananchi on Saturday. It was Wednesday when a journalist from Weekly Review reached Odinge desperately wan We met at Oneko's office and concluded that the Weekly Review was not to interview Jaramogi since Mukaru had already warned us against its intentions following a tip from Kenneth Matiba. We agreed that Odinge would give an appointments for the interview and then postpone at the last moment while we erected a ‘cordone sanitaire’ around the Tumaini House office. Unbeknownst to us, Hillary Ng'weno, the Weekly Review editor, managed to trace Odinga to his Jerusalem Estate apartment and extracted an interview late Thursday evening. The article on that Friday  was  a habinger of worse things to come. We drew Oneko's attention to this and pleaded with him to reach Jaramogi, cautioning him about what to say and not to say the press. That Friday there was a RIAT fund raising at the City Stadium on Jogoo Road. After that Odinga was to travel to the Coast accompanied by Robert Ouko. That Friday morning we pleaded with Oneko, as a veteran politician and a close confidant of Jaramogi, to travel with him to the Coast in view of what we had just read in the Weekly Review. We were of the view that the Special Branch was working overtime to derail the Jaramogi’sre-entry to Parliament. Oneko declined. Saying that, as chairman of the RIAT fund raising in Nairobi, he had to preside over a fund raising luncheon that weekend. The events in Mombasa led to the speech in which Jaramogi denounced Kenyatta as a land grabber — at least that is what the papers reported. As they say in the usual parlance, the rest is history. Our detractors in Kanuseized on this and developed a chorus denouncing Jaramogi. Raila and Matiba tried their best to salvage the situation to no avail. We nonetheless soldiered on to finish the "broko" and hand it over to Jaramogi. Arrangements for the fundraising were not interrupted. Moi came to Kisumu, ensconced between Njonjo and GG Kariuki. The sun was shining bright Jaramogi spoke, paying great tribute to his guest, Daniel Toroitich arap Moi. In turn Moi read his written speech impassively and spent the rest of the time chastising Jaramogi. The guests were dumbfounded. When it was over the whole retinue that had come with Moi to Kisumu left, except for Munyua Waiyaki, minister for Industry, and Koigiwa Wamwere, MP for Sabukia. Plenty of food had been prepared, complete with a high table for Moi and his Cabinet. When both Moi and Njonjo were out of government and I was serving as the Minister for Planning and National Development, we met at the US Embassy in Gigiri on July 4, 2003 or 04. I was sent by the President to represent him and read his speech. At the end of it I met our two old adversaries together and we laughed off the fact that they were attired in their characteristic double-breasted English suits. I worse my black Chinese suit. That photo is sitting somewhere in the archives of the Daily Nation. How things change!