Deputy President William Ruto has urged politicians to cease from inciting Kenyans for their own gains. Ruto said some leaders have plans to hijack the Building Bridges Initiative and use it to divide Kenyans. The DP spoke on Wednesday in Lanet, Nakuru County, during the burial of Josephine Wambui Kimotho, mother to former Nakuru Mayor Samuel Mwangi. He said the ongoing deliberations on BBI should be conducted in a manner that they do not breed division and hatred. “Let us all heed to President Uhuru Kenyatta's call and support BBI because we are committed to uniting all Kenyans,” Ruto said. Ruto assured communities living in Rift Valley that the region would remain peaceful despite ethnic incitement by a section of politicians. He said that Kenyans are free to live, invest and seek leadership in any part of the country irrespective of their ethnic backgrounds. He further said that politicians inciting communities against each other were immature, and do not understand the outcome of their careless utterances. Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui who was also present said politicians inciting Kenyans were studying abroad when the country experienced post-election violence in 2008. "Some of them even have dual citizenship; should Kenya go to war, they would leave the country," Governor Lee said. Soy MP Caleb Kositany accused ODM party leader Raila Odinga of defending Narok Senator Ledama Ole Kina's sentiments on land ownership. "As a national leader, how do you sit in a meeting where leaders plot against a community and all you can say is that they were speaking their mind,” Kositany said. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria asked politicians to be honest in the ongoing BBI debate. Other MPs who accompanied Ruto were Kimani Ngunjiri (Bahati),  Rindikiri Mugambi (Buuri) and Nakuru Woman Rep Lisa Chelule. Olekina accused the DP on Tuesday after being arrested shortly over incitement remarks. Addressing the media shortly after he was released outside the Kilimani Police Station, Olekina said Ruto has no authority whatsoever to order for his arrest. "This today was kicks of a dying horse. This is a witchhunt. The DP William Ruto is behind it. Enough is enough!" he said.