As the Athletics Kenya national cross country championships go down at the Uhuru Gardens this weekend, various World Under 20 camps will be out to test their runners as part of their preparations for the global show set for July at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Last week, the region selected a formidable team ahead of Saturday’s event, with 80 per cent coming from AK/Ministry of Sports-sanctioned Torongo training camp in Baringo, under veteran youth coach Barnabas Kitilit. Among the athletes in the team are Africa junior 3,000m champion Emmanuel Kiplagat, Africa 3,000m junior bronze medalist Gideon Rono, Shadrack Kipchirchir, Patrick Mossin, Julius Kipkwony and Kipsambu Kamagal. Kitilit said that all these juniors are being groomed for the world under 20 championships. “I am putting up a strong team for Africa cross country where I hoping to raise at least four boys and four girls in junior races from this camp. We have prepared them well. Through such camps, we will come up with a good team for the World U-20,” said Kitilit. Discovery Cross Country 6km winner Agnes Jebet from Kapkenda Girls, who won the East Africa 1,500m champion, Beatrice Kandie, Josephine Wanjiru, Jackline Kangor, Mary Chepkoech and Lydia Cheruiyot are in the junior women’s team. Edna Jebitok is another athlete in the world U20 program who is expected to stake her claim on grass as she leads the South Rift junior team. She will be accompanied by Mourine Cherotich and Africa 1,500m champion Fancy Cherono as well as Naomi Chepkorir, all of whom are expected to easily make Team to the world show in July. The North Rift contingent, who has dominated the national championships, have Bravin Kogei, the young brother of world 10km record holder Rhonex Kipruto alongside Bernard Kipkirui, Shadrack Kiplagat and David Kiboi. The world under 20 runner Winnie Kimutai leads junior girls from the region alongside Diana Kipserem, Mercy Cherop, Beatrice Cheburet, Brenda Chepchumba and Caren Chebet. Jebet is the most probable for the July show after missing the 2017 world under 18 and picked an injury to miss the Africa junior championships. From Nairobi region, Mercyline Cherono, the Africa U18 1500m bronze medallist will be on trial alongside Triza Cherotich, Ann Naasisho and Hilda Chebet. The junior men’s team comprises of Joseph Waweru, Jackson Kasaini, Victor Chepkwony and Harrison Ndirangu. From Nyanza South Judy Michira, Maureen Michira, Duke Momanyi and Simon Bulo, who are members of the Mogonga training camp will be on their way to Nairobi. “We believe it is important for the athletes to compete in the cross country as part of their continuous preparations ahead of the World U20,” said Nyanza South treasurer David Ogechi. “This will be a good build-up to even test their speed and endurance.”