Samburu treasury boss yesterday tabled more than 100 out of 500 vouchers, invoices and local purchase orders as evidence in the case against Governor Moses Lenolkulal. Joseph Mayani told a court that the payment vouchers addressed to Oryx Service Station were from the county government. He confirmed that the procurement process was initiated. Lenolkulal was charged alongside 10 others with Sh84.6 million graft. Mayani tabled a payment voucher dated March 7, 2018, for settling invoice for the supply of oil for Sh229,200 to Oryx. Another voucher addressed to the service station dated March 7, 2018, of amount Sh309,000 generated from the county executive. He also showed an award decision addressed to supply chain director from county secretary Stephen Letinina dated January 5, 2018. "Voucher number 2721 raised in favour of Oryx service station of value 363,000 dated January 18, 2017, came from Samburu county," Mayani said. On Wednesday, the DPP said he has enough evidence to conclusively prosecute the case. State counsel Alex Akula said he has 42 witnesses to assist in proving how the county lost millions of shilling through the supply of fuel by Oryx Service Station linked to the governor and businessman Hesbon Ndathi. He told magistrate Thomas Nzioka that they will focus on issues of abuse of office, conspiracy to defraud, conflict of interest and attempt to conceal the fraud by the two. The offences were allegedly committed between March 27, 2013, and March 25, 2019, in Maralal town. Akula said the evidence adduced will show how the transactions were done through payment vouchers and other documents in his possession. He will prove that Ndathi and the governor benefitted from the more than Sh84 million through Oryx Service Station supply of fuel to the county government. Other co-accused include Letinina, chief finance officer Daniel Lenolkirina and former chief officer in charge of environment and natural resources Josephine Lenasalia. Others are Agriculture chief officer Reuben Lemunyete, Education’s Linus Lenolngenje, Paul Lolmingani (Transport), Bernard Lesurmat of Lands, head of supply chain management Geoffrey Kitewan and Lilian Balanga.