Contractors who fail to complete projects on time despite receiving payment from the government will have to shoulder the extra expenses incurred because of the delays. Garissa county commissioner Meru Mwangi said on Tuesday that they have noted with concern the slow pace at which some contractors carry out government projects. He said contractors who drag their feet on government projects lead to delays that have cost implications for the government. Mwangi spoke in Balambala subcounty when he inspected the Sh148 million police office block and staff houses. Some Sh99 million has been paid to the contractor. Ninety per cent of the staff houses are complete, while the office block is over 70 per cent complete. The project started in 2012 and was supposed to take two years but stalled midway because of lack of funds. It resumed late last year after the ministry paid Sh18 million to the contractor. Mwangi said going forward, the cost of delays will be passed on to the contractor, unlike the current arrangement where the contractor has an upper hand. “We have incidents where a contractor has been paid over 50 per cent for a job while on the ground he has delivered about 30 per cent. This will not be entertained anymore. The government must get value for money. The days when contractors would inflate costs to make abnormal profits are long gone,” he said. Mwangi, who was accompanied by members of the County Development and Implementation Coordination Committee (CDICC), said the team will be monitoring every step of projects implementation. The administrator further said contractors should exhaust all the funds they have been paid before seeking cost variation. Cost variation occurs when work done costs or less than planned. He said some contractors are seeking cost variation while they have not exhausted the funds they have been paid for the projects they are undertaking. Late last year, Northeastern region commissioner Mohamed Birik said warned that contractors who do shoddy work risked being blacklisted. In the past, some contractors have been blamed for taking advantage of insecurity and the vastness of the region to carry out shoddy work because government officials rarely visited to evaluate the projects. Some of the major projects being undertaken by the national government in Northeastern include the Sh12 billion solar plant in Raya, Garissa county. The project is set to inject 54MW to the national grid. Others include the tarmacking of the 165km Nuno-Modogashe road, which, according to the Kenya National Highway Authority, is 95 per cent complete, and the building of several dams and water pans through the Northern Water Service Board.  