The regional governments proposed through the Building Bridges Initiative task force should have independent assemblies, a Siaya MCA has said. North Gem ward representative Nicholas Ochola said the assemblies would provide oversight to the regional governments. He differed with a section of MCAs who have opposed the creation of regional governments. The County Assemblies Forum has suggested that regional blocs be entrenched in the Constitution and funded by the Treasury instead of a third tier of government. CAF Western cluster counties Kakamega, Bungoma, Busia and Vihiga counties have opposed the establishment of regional governments. The forum also wants the shareable revenue to county governments proposed in the BBI report raised from 35 per cent to at least 45 per cent. Ochola said apart from fostering regional unity, the counties would benefit from shared prosperity of Lake Victoria, sugar, cotton and tea sectors. The MCA said there is a need to have a focal point where the resources can be managed so that investors do not shy away from investing in the regions. “The regional governments will help in terms of attracting investors and donors to boost the region’s economy,” Ochola said. The ward rep dismissed governors, senators, and MPs for advocating for political positions in the implementation of the BBI report. Ochola said second term governors are only advocating for the regional government for selfish interests. “I don’t know who is cheating the second term governors that if the regional governments are formed the positions will not be competitively filled,” Ochola said. He asked President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga to entrust them MCAs with the BBI implementation at the grassroots level and not MPs, governors or senators. “We need to get the BBI programme and start enlightening residents the importance of the BBI report,” Ochola told journalists in Gem. Ochola said it’s through the interpretation of the document that the MCAs will also be able to identify their right position in the BBI report. “No one is talking about our fate. The governors, senators and MPs are championing for their survival and forgetting the MCAs,” Ochola said. 