A former General Service Unit officer committed suicide in Kapkiamo, Baringo North, blaming his woes on the Kenya Police Service. Mark Kirui, 45, left a suicide note telling Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai that he had never received his benefits since he was dismissed from the service four years ago. “I served police service for 14 years and you can’t tell me missing work for just 10 days amounts to job dismissal as it happened to me,” he said in the note, apologising to his family and the community for what he did. His body was spotted hanging from a tree in the farm near their home around 11am on Monday. It was taken to Baringo County Hospital mortuary in Kabarnet. Kirui further stated in his suicide statement that the IG should take note that “since then I haven’t received my benefits”. He said life had been difficult since he left the service and that his sisters and brothers stayed away from him. “I have not gotten any advice from anybody, people have just run away from me,” Kirui wrote in the one-paragraph letter bearing his signature. He, therefore, called upon his family and the community to take care of his family noting that he had no quarrel with his wife "Mama Victor". "May God give her strength." His father Japhet Ruto said his son had been hardworking before his dismissal on grounds that he was drunk and skipped duties. Ruto said the deceased left four children. The oldest is in Form 1, he said, and appealed to the Kenya Police Service to look into how best they could help the family financially. But county police commander Robinson Ndiwa said Kirui was not entitled to any benefit because he was terminated due to gross misconduct. “Police terms of service are clear that anybody relieved from duty as a disciplinary action shall receive any benefits,” he said, adding that Kirui’s records showed he was an alcoholic and absconded duties. Keiyo chief Simon Cheraste said Kurui’s death brings to three suicide cases in the same village since December last year. On January 15, a secondary school girl committed suicide after allegedly killing her four-year-old child. It is suspected she may have been frustrated and afraid of arrest and prosecution after killing her baby. On December 12 last year, an ex-Kenya Defense Forces soldier Kimosop Chepkwony committed suicide. It is believed he may have killed himself over alleged habitual infidelity of his wife who is said to have been having an affair with another ex-soldier in the village. Earlier in March 2018, Bossei Day Secondary deputy principal Norah Koech committed suicide inside her house in unclear circumstances two weeks after the death of the school principal. Ndiwa noted the rising cases of suicide in the county, saying at least 20  people had taken their lives since January last year. The police boss advised residents to report to the authorities any challenge which could be a threat to their lives. Village elder Geoffrey Mpole said they were planning an interdenominational prayer meeting in the village to "cast away the demonic spirit of suicide". Edited by R.Wamochie