Deputy President William Ruto is my friend and I don't need an appointment to see him, former Sports CS Rashid Echesa has said. Echesa finally spoke after a week of drama that saw him arrested, spend the weekend behind bars, arraigned and finally released on a Sh1 million cash bail. Ruto pointed an accusing finger at Echesa for lying about an appointment to meet him on the day he visited his Harambee House Annex office in the fake military equipment deal. Echesa reportedly informed security officers manning Ruto's office that he had an appointment with him – something the DP later denied. Speaking to NTV on Tuesday night, Echesa said they have been friends with the DP for a long time even before he became a Cabinet Secretary. "I don't need an appointment to see DP Ruto.. he is my friend.. let them table evidence in court," he said. Echesa further dismissed claims that he has ever signed any contract in regards to the military arms deal. "I don't know where this narrative of Sh40 billion is coming from. I have never signed a contract and if there is one that I signed then the law is very clear. I want to challenge the DCI to publish those signatures," he said. He further noted that Stanley Kozlowski, the principal figure in the alleged scam, has been his friend for more than six years. "Even his mother knows me ....my mother and father knows Stan.. he came here on a tourist visa," he said. "I don't know whether he has been doing business around here. I knew he did not have a working permit." Echesa said he has never owned a company neither is he a director of a firm. Early in the week, Echesa was charged with conspiracy to commit a felony by conspiring to make a document with intent to defraud. He was also charged alongside three others with six counts of making a false document in the Sh39.5 billion fake arms deal. They are also alleged to have obtained Sh11.5 Million from Kozlowski Stanley Bruno by purporting that they will award him with a tender to supply military equipment. However, they all denied the charges.