A Nairobi court has allowed anti-terrorism police to detain two people for 10 days for alleged surveillance on a GSU facility for purposes of a terrorist attack. James Ikaba and Miriam Njoki who were arrested on January 4 while taking photographs at the GSU camp in Ruiru will now remain in custody pending investigations. Milimani senior principal magistrate Kennedy Cheruiyot said from the affidavit of the investigating officer the two were collecting information for purposes of terrorism activities. "I am taking judicial notice that the offences the two suspects are facing are serious in nature following the recent attacks at Nanyuki military camp and Manda in Lamu county. The court thus finds compelling reasons to hold the two until the investigations on the matter are complete," the magistrate ruled. The orders were granted after the anti-terrorism police sought an extension of detention, saying holding the suspects for more than 24 hours would amount to a violation of their constitutional rights. Court documents say the two were arrested on January 4 at the GSU Recce Company in Ruiru and the reason for their arrested duly explained to them. “The suspects are being investigated for several terrorism-related offences which include the collection of information contrary to the Anti-Terrorism Act,” prosecutor Joseph Kiarie said. The two suspects were on board a Land Cruiser which was parked outside the GSU facility. The prosecution says the suspects were taking photos of the Ruiru premises and upon intervention by the GSU officers on duty they tried to speed off. “They refused to stop, prompting the officers to shoot and deflate a left rear tyre of their motor vehicle," the prosecution said. Ikaba was the driver and suspected owner of the motor vehicle while Njoki was a passenger. The court heard that on a quick search of the car, the officers on duty recovered seven rounds of ammunition. The officers were led to Ikaba’s house in Marurui estate, Kiambu county, where they recovered suspect items including a pistol, a shotgun and 45 rounds of ammunition.  The defence objected to the application to detain the two, saying that Ikaba was a licensed firearm owner. The court directed that the matter be mentioned on January 16 to confirm progress of the probe.