Only one or two children out of 10 survive cancer in Kenya, In developed countries, the survival rate is eight out of 10 children. Experts said on Tuesday that unlike in adults, cancer in children is very hard to diagnose as it manifests itself with symptoms of other diseases in children such as fever, vomiting, headaches and joint pain. The situation is worse because there are no specialised children’s cancer centres in the region. “Cancer is a rare disease and it is seldom among the top diseases a health care provider or a parent is considering. We focus on flu or malaria and give medications for such a long time, only to later find out it was cancer,” Thomas Ngwiri said. Ngwiri, the head of clinical services at the Gertrude’s Children’s Hospital, spoke during the launch of the second annual Gertrude’s Charity Walk at a Nairobi Hotel. National Cancer Institute CEO Alfred Karagu says 3,272 new cancer cases are diagnosed in Kenya among children every year. It is feared the numbers could be higher because many cases go unreported or are misdiagnosed. Unlike cancers in adults, childhood cancers are not lifestyle-related. They not preventable as it has no risk factors associated with it. Karagu said the largest contributor to the death toll is late diagnosis, adding that focus should be shifted to the lowest level health centres where most of these children will be taken first. It is important to build the capacity of our health workers at the lower level to catch these cases early because if they are caught early then chances of the outcomes being better will be higher, Karagu said. He added, “A simple test like a total blood count will show an elevated level of certain high blood cells that will certainly tell you that is leukaemia. Some basic tests available even at some county referral hospitals could make you suspect it could be cancer. Then you can try elsewhere for confirmation. The budget shows the higher allocations are going to HIV-Aids, malaria, maternal health and so forth. "So we are pushing for something to help us to cushion the burden of disease,” Karagu said. Data from the National Cancer Institute shows leukaemia as the most prevalent cancer,16.5 per cent of the cases reported, or 539 cases. That is followed by Non-Hodgkin lymphoma with 489 cases (14.9 per cent). Kidney cancer accounts for 6.4 per cent with 208 cases. Bing-Neel syndrome, nasopharynx, kaposi sarcoma and Hodgkin lymphoma follow with 158,148, 140 and 137 cases, respectively while other others account for 44.4 per cent (1,452 cases). Other factors leading to low survival rate are inadequate cancer research infrastructure, poor access to care for patients in remote rural areas, prohibitive cost of anti-cancer drugs and lack of data on the distribution of childhood cancers (Edited by V. Graham)