Teachers’ unions and politicians have blamed the Ministry of Education for disasters in schools, the latest being the death of 14 children at Kakamega Primary School last Monday after a stampede. Knut, Kuppet and politicians said the ministry had failed to put the right safety measures in place. They spoke at a joint requiem service for the children on Friday. Knut national chairman Wycliffe Omucheyi said hard questions must be directed to the ministry regarding what happened in the Kakamega  school. “If this department was doing its work then who is to blame for such disasters in schools?”Omucheyi said. Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion said negligence by the ministry caused the deaths of the 14 pupils. “This happened because the Ministry of Education failed to provide guidance to the school. The law is very clear in that there must be a quality assurance and standards committee to inspect and provide reports for schools. But in this case there is none and this the responsibility of the Education Cabinet Secretary Prof. George Magoha,”Sossion said. He demanded that the ministry provides a public health report in every school particularly where there has been a disaster. The ministry should provide quality assurance and inspection reports from the Ministry of Public Works. Sossion said Knut would call a strike should another disaster happen in a school. Kuppet national chairman Omboko Milemba asked the Education cabinet secretary to convene a stakeholders' meeting to discuss safety measures in schools. “Maybe the time has come that we should have a safety department in our schools and  security and safety prefects,” he said. Bungoma senator Moses Wetng’ula urged the national government to produce certificates of approval and compliance every year for every school showing that it was fit to accommodate and provide learning for children. Lugari MP Ayub Savula said he was would raise a question in Parliament about why there were no safety and standards officers in schools. Bungoma Woman Rep Catherine Wambilianga said: “We are going to cause a national conversation about the safety of our children in school and also demand that teachers and learners be trained on disaster management.”