When President Uhuru Kenyatta rose to his feet to deliver the State of Nation Address on March 31, 2016, one man stood out for whistling him down. Despite the National Assembly chambers being packed to capacity, with all army generals in attendance, Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi remained unbowed and disrupted the President’s speech. He caused quite a scene and was ejected by orderlies in events that prompted Speaker Justin Muturi to throw him out in the cold for four months. On his return in 2017, the MP channelled his energies into oversight after ODM seconded him to the powerful post of Public Accounts Committee chairman. In his wake are good tidings as the committee has managed to review audit reports to be at par with the Auditor General. The team he leads, which has 18 other members, is currently reviewing the audits for the financial year 2017-18 — the latest from the OAG. He described the feat as justice for county governments, which have over time suffered low funding over delayed audited accounts setting a low base for the share of revenue. Due to the progress at PAC, counties can now access up to a minimum of Sh407 billion in the share of national revenue from the current Sh302 billion. “This PAC has broken the record in terms of being able to clear all the backlog of audited accounts that required examination. It is a feat that has never been achieved by any PAC in the history of Parliament,” Wandayi told the Star in an interview. “Covering three financial years 2014-15; fy 2015- 16; and fy 2016-17 within a span of two tears is unimaginable. If we move this way, a lot of justice will be done to the citizens since the division of revenue depends on the report.” The import of this, he said, is that going forward, revenue sharing between the two levels of government will be based on more realistic statistics, strengthening devolution for the benefit of the people at the grassroots. PROCUREMENT MOST ABUSED In the tell-all session that also included his plans for 2022, the Ugunja MP attributed the success to “focus and using the synergies created through teamwork”. “I achieved this by utilising the potential of members of the committee individually and collectively. Members’ commitment enabled us to cover ground. We intend to keep it that way,” he said. The PAC chair says in his reviews, the biggest problem in the government’s management of funds is in the procurement process. “Through and through, you find there are issues in departments and ministries where there is procurement of huge capital projects, which involve huge amounts of money,” he said. Wandayi decried a prevalent situation of deliberate attempts by accounting officers to circumvent the law and guidelines spelled out in the Constitution, Public Finance Management Act and Procurement Act. “You see officers trying to cleverly circumvent the procedures and, therefore, citizens continually get no value for money in the capital projects,” he said. “We have fought off these irregularities and we have prescribed remedial actions. We have recommended specific action against specific officers. “We are hopeful that with the re-invigoration of anti-graft agencies, a lot of these cases will end up in court and people convicted to serve as a deterrent.” Wandayi said his worry is that the cases keep on shifting from one state department to another, “year in year out”. “They are everywhere, only differing in form,” the MP said, restating that the EACC, DCI and the DPP must act on the committee’s recommendations. Among the recommendations was that the Public Audit Act be amended to give the auditor general powers to bar from office accountants with adverse audit queries. Wandayi further cited an alarming trend where state officers fail to provide or delay to submit supporting documents for queried transactions. The ODM political affairs secretary said state officers must appreciate the need for political hygiene to ensure accountability of public resources. “Growing up in a Christian family imparted a lot of values in me. It is one aspect we should carry with us in the management of public resources,” he said. EYEING GOVERNOR SEAT? On his future plans, the two-term MP dismissed claims he has expressed interest in the Siaya governor post in 2022. The lawmaker said he has neither declared such an interest in public nor in private, adding that he has heard of the conversation in the county. Wandayi says he leaves his next political move to God and to his constituents, whose views he says he’d seek when the right time comes. “If it is their view that I continue serving them as their MP, so be it. If it is their view that I do something else, I will follow through. But I still have two years to continue delivering on my mandate as MP,” he said. His bid has been touted for a while, amid indications he was due to face off with big names like Senator James Orengo and former PAC chairman Nicolas Gumbo. It would be an interesting duel, considering the Raila Odinga factor in the region’s vote. The ODM leader has a lot of say in the Siaya vote. “I have heard those talks. It is mostly coming from my admirers in the entire county; those who think that with my track record as MP, I can serve them better as governor,” Wandayi said. “I haven’t taken a keen interest in those discussions because it is still too early. I have not declared publicly or in private to any that I want to be the governor.” “If the decision is to be made, I will also have to consult the ODM leadership, being that I am the political affairs secretary. Until then, my plea is that we give Governor Cornel Rasanga time to deliver on his mandate.” Wandayi is banking on the successes of his tenure as MP to position himself in the county’s politics. He boasts of transforming a constituency he inherited with dilapidated infrastructure, from roads to schools and health centres. STRATEGIC PLAN Ugunja was hived off from Ugenya constituency and was characterised by bad roads, poor infrastructure in schools, among other development constraints. Upon taking over, Wandayi says, he worked with constituents to develop the Ugunja Strategic Plan 2013-18 and that of 2019-23. In the plans are various targets around agriculture, education, health, infrastructure, environment, women, youth and persons with disability affairs. “In my current second term, we are making inroads towards achieving the objectives of the strategic plans. We now have tarmac roads connecting Sigomere-Ugunja-Sidindi-Ukwala. These were things that people never dreamt of, and we know an MP plays a critical role for the roads to be done,” Wandayi said. He adds that his leadership has lobbied a Sh1 billion AfDB water project launched by former Water CS Simon Chelugui a couple of months ago. “We have built critical bridges, put up modern X-ray installations in our county hospitals and established a TTI offering a mechanical engineering course. A KMTC is underway,” the MP said. “We have also built laboratories in schools, including day schools that now rival those in established institutions like Alliance. We have also bought schools buses using CDF. I am happy with the work we have done with our people.” The lawmaker’s conclusion is that what the country needs is visionary leadership “and then put a mechanism of selling the vision to the people and inspire the people to achieve the vision”. He hailed the fact that PAC has not attracted negative publicity during his tenure, as was the case with the most recent committees, which were tainted with bribery claims. “Of course people want to be favoured, that we turn a blind eye to the audit queries. But we said no and have remained firm that we will not be arm-twisted,” the ODM MP said. Edited by T Jalio