President Uhuru Kenyatta is fighting back to regain control of his Mt Kenya backyard in an aggressive campaign that could turn tables against DP William Ruto. In an extensive tour of the region, Uhuru is fighting off a growing rebellion, launching projects and rallying the region behind his handshake with opposition chief Raila Odinga. The President has been under constant attacks from the DP’s allies, who have openly accused him of overseeing the ravaging of the region’s economy and abandoning his principal assistant. In just three days, Uhuru has visited four counties in the Mt Kenya region where he has popularised the BBI and launched projects. He has toured Nyandarua, Meru and Kirinyaga. Uhuru assailed politicians who he said are hell-bent on playing 2022 politics instead of working for the electorate, apparently referring to the DP and his Tangatanga allies, and vowed to personally inspect development projects on the region. “I will personally return to this place to come and inspect the progress of this road. Those who are politicking are doing so for their selfish interests,” Uhuru in Nyandarua on Friday. Uhuru said he no longer trusts anyone, saying those he trusted had become ‘hyenas’ who were out to enrich themselves. “Those I used to send to represent me and ensure that development projects are on the right track started behaving like hyenas and doing their own things to enrich themselves. Let no one cheat you, from today, I am not sending anyone to help me. I will do it myself,” the visibly agitated Uhuru said. The remarks are a blow to the DP, who has been using the projects to entice himself to the electorate ahead of the 2022 polls, a scenario that always put him at warpath with the opposition. The President made a case for his new-found friendship with Raila, dealing yet another blow to his DP who, together with his allies from the region, had castigated the truce. The President has also been facing rebellion and criticism from Tangatanga politicians in the Central Kenya region over his closeness with Raila. He said he will stick to the handshake to ensure Kenyans are united and that no blood is shed as has been the case every election year. “BBI does not intend to sideline anyone but ensure that Kenyans are peaceful. It is the only way we will be able to solve our problems and ensure there is no conflict every five years,” he said. Ruto's allies from Mt Kenya have promised to take a bullet for the DP, with sacked Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri saying he won't be cowed to abandon him. The DP's allies accuse Uhuru of abandoning Ruto at the time he needs him to support his 2022 presidential bid. The President is therefore keen to use the rallies to fight off the critics. He also wants to solidify his support base and put his foot down as the undisputed political leader in the region. The tours come only weeks after the President announced a raft of measures to fix problems farmers in the region face. In a move seen as enticing his backyard ahead of the trips and BBI rallies and fighting critics, Uhuru ordered the National Treasury to operationalise the Sh3 billion cherry fund to cushion farmers against delayed payments. Uhuru also ordered the Treasury to release Sh300 million to the Micro and Small Enterprise Authority for the construction of cold storage and processing facilities in Nyandarua, Meru and Kisii. The Treasury was also ordered to release Sh1 billion to the New KCC to buy farmer's milk at enhanced prices and for the construction of storage facilities.