On a cold Tuesday night last November, I bumped into Francis Kinuthia Gitau in front of the Old Nation Centre while I was in a financial quagmire. Between poverty and I – as Kenyans like to say – I had only Sh150, which was my fare back home and to work next morning. With his ever radiant smile we exchanged pleasantries and parted ways. I was Sh600 richer thanks to Francis' generosity – no doubt a prayer answered. Kinuthia died tragically after a rogue motorist knocked him off his motorcycle at Membley area along the Northern Bypass. In the three years I have fellowshipped with him at All Saints Cathedral, Nairobi, I have known him as a generous and bubbly young man full of charm. This view is shared by family, friends, workmates and most people who interacted with the 34-year-old. “Life will, undoubtedly, not be the same without your physical presence, without your radiance, recollections, brotherly warmth and generosity,” his sister Waithira and brothers Muchai, Kabue, Kahuthu, Karori, say. Born in Lari, Kiambu county, Kinuthia gave his all to bettering this society and beyond. Holder of a Masters in Global Information and Communications Technology, He was industrious and passionate about his work as an IT expert – so much so that he was nicknamed 'ICT Permanent Secretary' by his colleagues. For him, work was not only about a fat cheque but  about a satisfying feeling of being used as God's vessel to impact the lives of other people. When not handling IT matters at Kenya Yearbook – where he was working until his death – Kinuthia was fixing IT issues at the All Saints Cathedral. A wearer of many hats, he was also a HIV/Aids peer educator, gender and disability mainstreaming advocate and a qualified first aider. All these while clothing himself in kindness, compassion, humility and patience – not forgetting love, which binds all these virtues in perfect unity. During the 11:30am young adults service at All Saints Cathedral main auditorium, we would always sit together at the same spot before I later moved to sit on the balcony. “Why did you run away from us where we used to sit? You should come back to your favourite spot,” Kinuthia, with a beaming smile, teased me when we met in church sometime last year. That my presence could be missed was touching to me and a testament of his desire to emotionally connect with people in genuine love. Thirty-four years is indeed a short life that held a lot of promise and potential for the future. Nonetheless, as his in-laws Mwariama, Sarah, Eunice, Mercy and Josephine say, our comfort comes from the knowledge that Francis is in a better place in the arms of the Father. Francis has fought the good fight, he has finished the race and has kept the faith. Now he awaits the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the Righteous Judge will award him on that day.