A group of Kilifi activists against Gender-Based Violence wants the government to establish safe facilities for victims. The activists said many cases go unreported because victims fear the repercussions from their spouses if the matter is reported. Further, they said, most victims prefer to remain quiet and accept the situation as they feel insecure if their challenges are made public. So far the campaign has received a major boost after an Italian member of the One Billion Rising global movement  – that seeks to raise awareness worldwide – joined in to sensitise the community against GBV. Rita Valentini from Rome said she decided to join in the campaign in Malindi to help women and girls who are victims of gender-based violence. Speaking during celebrations to mark the campaign in Malindi, Valentini said most women suffer because they do not know where to go. Valentini said already, the government has done "a good job in the past by changing the Constitution", adding that among the steps taken was to criminalise violence against women. "We hope the Kenyan government creates some institutional offices that can be strong and give to the women a place of peace, where they can run to and get some help," she said. She said it is only through raising awareness that the message can be spread all over that gender-based violence is a crime. Valentini said most people are now aware of the group which is following the movement in Italy dubbed One Billion Rising. "Two hundred countries worldwide are involved in this campaign which started in 2012 with very few people to defend the women against abuse and the violence," she said. This year's celebrations brought together more than 200 women and schoolchildren who wore red ribbons to the campaign. She said the global campaign aims at reaching out to one billion people. Each year, all over 200 countries, people wear red ribbons and dance to send the message against GBV. Malindi Progressive Welfare Association chairperson Kate Mwikali said gender-based violence violates the security, safety, health and growth of children. She said the campaign is aimed at protecting women adding on its importance for young girls to be aware of it. "Most of the young girls are here with their families, we are happy that they understand, many of them are suffering silently. That is why many of the cases are not known,"  Mwikali said. She said many women don't know that even emotional abuse is violence. Chausiku Ogutu from Malindi Women Against Violent Extremism called for cooperation among the community in Kilifi county to counter GBV. She society shies away from going public on cases hence they go unreported. The activists have volunteered to end the fear among women so that they are able to speak out about the vice, Ogutu said. "These things happen in our society, some happen in our households and if we do not empower women to speak out, they will suffer. We need them to come out." She said there is a consortium of other organisations such as Muslims for Human Rights, Haki Africa and Haki Yetu among others in the drive. Emmanuel Mnyaya, a Mijikenda Kaya elder, said GBV cases are on the rise, particularly for the elderly who are being hacked for alleged witchcraft. She said such elderly people need to be protected instead of being lynched. "These cases are hidden in the society, many do not want to report them because even if one reports GBV case, they take time and people feel they do not get justice," he said. Many people hide the cases because there is a breakdown of communication in the network linking the public and the government agencies, he said. Edited by R.Wamochie