Kericho Governor Prof Paul Chepkwony has waived land rates to all religious organisations. He made no distinction between established churches and fringe groups. The county boss called it a gift to religious organisations that had prayed for peace and unity in the cosmopolitan county, home to nearly all 46 tribes in Kenya. While hosting United States AmbassadorKyle McCarter, Chepkwony said Kericho was among the least corrupt counties due to prayers from the religious groups, guidance on sound governance and fight against corruption. “As the governor, I have the leadership blessing from religious groups here and the full support from elected leaders, including MCAs, MPs and senators, Chepkwony told the US envoy outside his office on Thursday. “As a token of appreciation for their role in praying for leaders and fighting against social ills, I will wave land rates to thee groups," the governor said. Ambassador McCarter called on Kenyans to develop a culture of self-reliance instead of relying on donor funding. McCarter said his country will continue partnering with Kenya in development to help it adopt a culture of self-reliance and independence. He praised Kenya for producing some of the best research scientists who had enabled the Kericho-based Sh800 million US-funded Walter Reed Programme (WRP) Clinical Research Center to produce some of the best vaccines in use. “An HIV-Aids vaccine is among those produced in the research centre and it has been passed on to the entire world to fight against HIV-Aids," McCarter said. He said Kericho is already on the world map for having made a breakthrough in the search for a vaccine, alongside other vaccines currently being used worldwide." The ambassador said the US government was happy with Kenya's research success under the Kenya Medical Research Institute (KEMRI). The army medical research, through its Presidents Emergency Plan for Aids Relief (PEFEAR), had made some vaccine breakthroughs being used worldwide. Governor Chepkwony, a professor of pharmaceutical chemistry, said it's only a matter of time before Kenya becomes a medical research hub in Africa. He said the county has partnered with scientists from the Univerity of Michigan in several areas of research, focussing on some terminal diseases. He said the Kericho Referral Hospital had already started pacemaker implantation so some heart patients need no longer travel to India. (Edited by V. Graham)