A man who married a 17-year-old Form One student in Muhoroni subcounty, Kisumu county has been arrested. The suspect, Fredrick Odhiambo Ondingo, 35, was arrested on Friday evening in Muhoroni's Ngere Kagoro Sublocation in Nyang'oma. The arrest comes after an order by Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i during a fundraiser function at Achego Girls High School on Friday, that the suspect be arrested and charged. "As ordered by the CS, quick action has been taken by our team and already arrested the suspect who had married off a minor student who has been admitted at Achego Girls in Form one," Muhoroni  Deputy county commissioner Erick Wanyonyi said. The suspect, Wanyonyi said, will be arraigned in court on Monday. Matiang'i had ordered the arrest of a man who married the student. He said the county security team should swiftly arrest the suspect and be charged. The suspect married the girl forcing her not to join the school. He escaped into a sugarcane plantation when being pursued. The minor has since been rescued and admitted to Form One at Achego Girls High School. She sat 2019 KCPE at B One primary school while expectant in Muhoroni subcounty. Matiang'i said those preying on school girls have no space in the society and should be jailed. He was speaking at Achego Girls High School in Muhoroni during a fundraiser to build a dormitory.Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, Governor Anyang Nyong'o, Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo, East African community CAS Ken Obura accompanied Matiang'i. A total of Sh14.5 million was raised. President Uhuru Kenyatta donated Sh2 million with Raila Odinga Sh 1million. Matiang'i  said early marriage is unacceptable in the country. He donated Sh600,000 with Koyoo and his friends, Sh600,000 and Obura Sh200,000 respectively. "What do you discuss with a child? We can't tolerate such act of confusing our young children," he said. He added, "I want that man taken to court and tell the magistrate why he's marrying a 17-year-old girl. "Let us respect and take good care of our children. How do you marry a child and stand before people that you have a wife? Such a stupid act cannot be allowed in Kenya," He said there are many women in the country who are mature enough for marriage who men should talk to and not minors. "If they don't know how to approach women then they can seek help from elders and leaders to help them get wives instead of children," Matiang'i said. He pledged to pay the school fees for the girl for the four years. The CS told chiefs, Deputy county commissioners and county commissioners in Nyanza to ensure 100 per cent transition government policy is achieved. President Uhuru Kenyatta had directed that all children who sat KCPE must be admitted in secondary schools. He also warned chiefs against negotiating with culprits who take advantage of minors that action will be taken against them. "We want all our children in schools. Anybody derailing that must be dealt with," Matiang'i said. In Nyanza, 96 per cent of students have joined Form One according to Regional Commissioner James Kianda.