More than 2,000 fish farmers in Kisii will benefit from the Sh14.9 billion Aquaculture Business Development Programme funded by the International Fund for Agricultural Development. Kisii is among 15 counties under the programme. County Agriculture executive Esman Onsarigo said they have registered 2,172 active farmers who own 2,299 fish ponds occupying about 156 acres. Onsarigo said fish farming has a high potential for improving livelihoods and increasing the incomes. He spoke during the ‘Kuza, Kula na Kuuza Samaki’ campaign at Nyanturago Stadium, Nyaribari Chache subcounty. From 2013 to 2018, 160 tonnes of fish valued at Sh49.1 million was produced. Currently, the potential from the existing ponds and shallow dams stands at close to 512 tonnes per annum — worth more than Sh128 million with proper fish husbandry techniques, Onsarigo said. The executive said the department is undertaking a ‘produce and eat more fish' campaign to entice the residents into accepting fish as a rich source of protein. "Fish is a rich source of white meat with micronutrients, minerals, essential fatty acids and essential amino acids building blocks for protein. Its high digestibility is particularly important for the sick, pregnant mothers and in child health development when somatic growth is optimal," he said. He appealed to residents to venture into fish farming and take advantage of the opportunities available in the sector so they can adapt to climate change through diversified farming that includes livestock keeping. This will help farmers cope with water stress periods while increasing livelihood options and household nutrition, Onsarigo said. To enhance the availability of adequate high-quality fingerlings to farmers, the county government has funded the construction of fish multiplication and demonstration centres in Bomachoge Chache and Bonchari. Onsarigo said the centre in Bomachoge Chache is complete and the other is 80 per cent done. Agriculture and Cooperative Development chief officer Geoffrey Mogire urged residents to adopt fish farming and consume high amounts of fish to exploit its nutritional values. He said the Kuza Kula na Kuuza Samaki campaign aims at increasing dietary intake of fish, especially among children and pregnant and lactating mothers. Fish is rich in omega-3 fatty acids that are essential for brain development. Mogire urged farmers to procure quality fingerlings from authenticated hatcheries such as the County Fish Multiplication and Training Centre. County Fisheries director Edwin Mugo said fish farming significantly contributes to food and nutritional security in the country. He said the county is promoting fish farming through extension services. "Fish meat is highly digestible, well endowed with macronutrients and the 10 essential amino acids in equal proportions," he said, adding that at least two servings of fish a week is highly recommended. "Water from fishponds can help sustain crops during periods of water stress and tree nursery establishment. At the same time, the nutrient-rich waters can increase productivity."