Kirinyaga has started a poultry programme that will benefit some 1,110 households. The country government, in partnership with the World Bank and through the National Agricultural Rural Inclusive Growth Project (NARIGP), has built henhouses for 32 community groups to help them engage in mass egg production. The farmers will produce one million eggs a month and earn at least Sh10 million. The henhouses are built in one of the group members’ home and will accommodate 1,250 layers, translating into 40,000 hens across the county. Each of the county’s 20 wards will get one or two projects. In three years, each group will be expected to have started a similar project for each of its members through the proceeds realised from the initial investment. This will ensure each member earns about Sh8,000 per month from the sale of eggs while still engaging in their normal economic activities. The project is one of the agricultural value chain initiatives the county is implementing under the ‘Wezesha Kirinyaga’ economic stimulus programme. Governor Anne Waiguru said it will bridge the deficit in local egg production while discouraging imports from neighbouring countries. She spoke on Monday as she inspected some of the henhouses. Waiguru said the groups will receive their chicks in March. During the first six months, the county government will support the groups with feed. They will later access the high-quality subsidised feed from Kiaga animal feed factory to reduce their cost of production and increase earnings. The governor said farmers will sell their eggs through Kirinyaga Investment Development Authority (KIDA) — the county agency responsible for promoting and marketing investments. She said KIDA has sourced markets in public and private institutions. “This programme is an end-to-end programme that will ensure farmers get a guaranteed income since the county will market their products,” Waiguru said. It will provide an alternative income-generating activity that will improve the livelihoods of residents, especially women and the youth. Governor Waiguru said her administration is committed to supporting farmers in diversifying their agricultural activities to reduce over-dependence on conventional cash crops such as coffee and tea. The proceeds from the project will enable families to take care of their needs and educate their children. The county government has attached a veterinary and a livestock extension officer to each of the groups to ensure they optimise egg production so the initiative becomes a success. The extension officers have been trained, while farmers training will take place before the chicks are delivered. (Edited by F'Orieny)