Chicken served in local food chains of global hotels is sourced from birds kept in cramped, poorly ventilated and filthy environments, an animal welfare activist has warned. Victor Yamo, the World Animal Protection campaign manager said many of the chicken suffer from lameness and skin lesions as a result of the conditions. He said some of the largest global fast-food chains operating in Africa are under the spotlight for going against the welfare standards for chickens raised for their meat. Yamo spoke in Nairobi yesterday during the launch of the Pecking Order, a report which ranks how fast food restaurants are performing in their commitment, ambition and transparency on chicken welfare. “All businesses operating in Africa are performing worryingly low. This means that consumers are unwittingly buying meat from chickens who are subject to unnecessary suffering and cruelty,” he said. World Animal Protection Africa director Tennyson Williams said global fast-food giants have the power to stop the suffering of billions of chickens every year. The findings showed that some of food chain companies in Kenya were classed as having very poor broiler chicken welfare globally. “These birds never get the chance to grow at a healthy rate or behave naturally. Instead, their lives are all too often full of pain, fear and stress. “There is no excuse why these iconic companies with the power to put an end to this continue causing such suffering for the sake of their profits,” Yamo said. He said consumers globally are increasingly concerned about animal welfare. “We will continue to speak up for them and for chickens to put pressure on companies to make real change,” he said. World Animal Protection called on global companies to lead and ensure that any chicken meat being served at their restaurants are guaranteed a life worth living. The companies assessed in The Pecking Order have an opportunity in their hands and could use their power to improve the lives of hundreds of millions of animals, the report says. (edited by O. Owino)