FC Talanta captain Patrick Muchiri believes last weekend’s coaching challenge will inspire him to take coaching seriously in the near future. Muchiri was forced to take up touchline duties during their Betway Shield Cup round of 32 matches against Zetech University Titans following the expiry of Ken Kenyatta and George Owoko’s probation tenures on Friday last week. Kenyatta and Owoko served as the head and assistant coaches respectively, from December last year. The creative midfielder, who was assisted by the club’s medic Rodric Embukane guided the outfit to edge the students 6-5 on post-match penalties after a two-all draw within regulation time. Muchiri, who has been at the club for the last eight years, said he will seek to take the Caf Level D coaching classes in the course of the year. The St. Anthony’s Boys High School alumnus who boasts of a basic coaching certificate, revealed that he has a year remaining in his career as a player and hinted of transitioning to a full-time tactician once he hangs his boots. “The experience opened me to the idea of advancing my coaching studies. I did my basics in 2018 and had the opportunity to practice some of the tactics learned during the game. After the match, I resolved to go for the Caf D course before the year ends,” he said. In the meantime, Muchiri lauded the players for professional conduct and playing to his instructions. He also lifted the lid on the counsel he received from former national U-23 Emerging Stars head coach John Kamau after the match. The two worked at Talanta in 2017 before Kamau left for KCB. “We have been good friends with the players and they still regard me as their teammate. They took my instructions and responded positively to the decisions which I made even though some did not sit well with them. Kamau approached me after the game and encouraged me not to relent in my quest to transition into coaching. We will build on the win and prepare for a league match against Stima this weekend,” he added. 