Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga for a long time has been seen as a political extremist. This is not the case. Many are now wondering whether the Raila they are seeing is the very man they mistook for a dictator. He is the building stone that was rejected but has become the chief cornerstone. The Raila I know and whom I have interacted with for the last 18 years always means well for the country. I dare say, he holds the country's interests at heart. That is why he has made unpopular concessions because he knows all too well what it means. He is not after power. Kenyans have come to appreciate, although too late, that Raila's decisions are in the best interest of the country's security, political and development agenda. Raila is not a power-hungry politician using the Building Bridges Initiative to propel himself to power. Raila is not a man seeking power just for the sake of it. Raila actually understands our political terrain, and after studying it too well while working both in government and in the opposition, he has come to the conclusion about what is good for the country. He is a statesman whose ideals have converged with President Uhuru Kenyatta to take the country to the next level where the centre can hold. The current political tranquillity is thanks to Raila's great sacrifices. Raila served as PM in the grand coalition government between 2008 and 2013 and during that period the country enjoyed relative calm that spurred economic development. During the 'Nusu Mkate' administration, many admit, a lot was achieved. Raila is a man who knows what is good for this country given that he has been on both sides for long. Since the March 9, 2018, handshake, we have started to appreciate that extremists can meet in the most unlikely way. Kenyans are now freely working in harmony without a lot of political prejudices. It is important to note that Raila has not abandoned his reform agenda for the country and those saying so are not looking at the bigger picture. As a Democrat who has been in the trenches fighting the government for decades, Raila is aware of what he wants for the country. The writer is ODM national treasurer and ex-Kitutu Masaba MP