The organising committee of the late former President Daniel Toroitich arap Moi had to make last-minute changes to accommodate the swelling numbers of mourners. The committee led by Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya had made seating arrangements for 30,000 people but by 9 a.m that number had been exceeded. There were still long queues of people who had travelled from far and wide to go celebrate Moi's life. The seats were quickly increased by 10,000 but the numbers kept on increasing. Some people arrived at the gate as early as 2.00 am with the gates being opened at 4.00 am. "The arrangement here was perfect and the entry smoother than I expected," Susan Chelimo, a distant relative of the Moi family who had travelled from Mt. Elgon said. Chelimo said she went through a thorough screening at the gate and had to queue again to receive half a loaf of bread, soda, water and the funeral service program. "I was ushered to my seat and was seated by 4.10 am. This shows that the planning was great," she said. Many sat on the well-manicured Kabarak University open grounds and braved the scorching sun after the three mega domes were filled to capacity. A section of the mourners travelled to the venue from as far as Mombasa and had to sleep over in Nakuru as they waited for the day. Others walked several kilometres to the venue while the rest were ferried using school buses. Others stood through out the service which was also addressed by family members, former government officials who served in the Moi era and other leaders who included President Uhuru Kenyatta. The event was painted red with Kanu colours to celebrate the man who was among the early members of the party. Besides the snacks, mourners some of the mourners were lucky to get the Kanu T-shirt while majority got caps. As is the norm in big crowds, emergency service providers such as the Kenya Red Cross Society and St Johns were present at the venue. The dignitaries' parking lot was a sea of vehicles as many made time for the final send-off of the former President.