Former Jubilee nominated senator Paul Njoroge has proposed that President Uhuru Kenyatta becomes executive Prime Minister in 2022 if Kenyans approve changes to the government structure. Njoroge said by this move, the President would then get to recover time lost in his first term in office due to duress and blackmail by his deputy William Ruto. The ex-senator says the President has been unable to implement his pledge to Kenyans because his deputy is too busy playing 2022 succession politics. The ex-senator said the ODM leader Raila Odinga should succeed President Uhuru as the country's next President. According to Njoroge who served in the 11th Parliament, the President should be given another opportunity to complete his promises to Kenyans as he has lost a lot of time due to succession politics. "Consequently, it should be noted that it has been very difficult to keep his expectations and that of Kenyans with regards to his promises on the for four pillars of the government agenda due to too much 2022 politics by the deputy President who is meant to be a principal assistant," he said. He was speaking at a press conference at Intercontinental Hotel, Nairobi on Sunday. However, the former senator asked the President and the former prime minister to come out and state clearly that they will be going for the two positions. "It is the highest time now his excellency the president and his brother Raila Amollo Odinga stop taking Kenyans for a ride and declare their interest in the presidential seat and prime minister seat in order not to keep Kenyans guessing on the same," he said. Njoroge reiterated that blackmail to the  president by deputy president William Ruto has enable him get away with corruption and mismanagement. "It should be remembered that throughout their first term,in office, the president was blackmailed by his deputy thus forcing his silence instead of taking serious action against massive theft of Kenyans' resources by Ruto and his associates," he said. On the ongoing BBI popularizing meetings, Njoroge insisted that Uhuru should paralyse all parallel BBI forums planned by Ruto and his allies. "The president should stop the ongoing plans by Ruto and his team from conducting parallel BBI meetings which are meant to create bad blood amongst Kenyans," he said. Last week, a group of MPs led by Elgeyo Marakwet senator Kipchumba Murkomen announced that they will kick off their own rallies on the BBI with their first rally set for February 8, in Nakuru's Afraha Stadium The resolution arose from a two-day retreat in Naivasha that brought together more than 120 legislators made up of Jubilee MPs and other like-minded parliamentarians. Murkomen was, however, quick to warn that the series of the rallies were not meant to counter the other meetings.