Tigania West MP John Mutunga has questioned the viability of constructing the New Kenya Cooperative Creameries in the Nyambene region, whose major economic activity is miraa growing. Mutunga said an agribusiness value chain analysis on milk production should have been done earlier, as well as and mobilisation of farmers in Tigania and Igembe regions to rear cows for milk supply. Mutunga criticized the country’s inability to prioritize agriculture by giving the ministry the lion’s share of the budget. He said the only way to revive coffee, pyrethrum and tea, which he termed to be in ICU, is 10 per cent allocation of the national budget to the agriculture sector. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Saturday commissioned the construction of the New KCC  cooling plant at Kangeta in Igembe Central, which is a miraa growing zone. He said the cooling plant will help farmers store up to 100,000 litres of milk. “We have been stagnant, the highest [growth] being at 3.5 per cent. This is why Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda and Ethiopia are moving ahead of us on economy tremendous growth through agri-processing,” he said. Mutunga said having worked as an agronomist in the government since 1989 and laying down crucial agricultural policies, some of which were adopted and implemented during President Mwai Kibaki's administration, the growth of Kenyan economy solely lies on farmer’s empowerment. “How do we start a factory without the product? There is some milk but not really enough for that factory. We need a lot of effort to educate people to stimulate the production of milk for this factory.," he said "How do you expect a farmer to uproot miraa to plant grass to feed dairy animals? If they can produce miraa juice and wine instead, there would be a readily available market,” Mutunga said in Meru town. Mutunga said the policy of importing milk from neighbouring countries whereas we are milk self-sufficient has hit hard on the economy, resulting in poor prices for the farmers. “Kibaki did so many healthy and useful decisions for this country. He had initially allocated a two per cent for agriculture research,” Mutunga said. He said cartels have also destroyed the agriculture sector. 