Upcoming runners Winnie Kimutai and Jacob Krop have are focused on winning their maiden international titles at this year's Africa Cross Country Championships set for Lome, Togo on April 8. The North Rift duo will be making their debut at the continental championships, competing in the 6km and 8km under 20 women and men's races respectively. They are among the 36 athletes selected to represent the country in Lome following the national cross country championships/trials held at the Ngong Racecourse on Saturday. Kimutai has had remarkable performances in the Athletics Kenya cross country circuitbeen a figure in Athletics Kenya cross country meetings, having won the Mount Elgon title to set her pace for the continental sojourn. The Form Two student at Kapsait Secondary School in Elgeyo Marakwet County said her ambitions are well placed, to win gold and at worst, a silver medal. “My target is to come home with gold but if things go wrong, then I must win the silver medal,” said Kimutai. She was named alongside Maurine Cherotich from South Rift who won the title at the national cross country, defending champion Edina Jebitok, also from South Rift, Central Rift’s Agnes Jebet, Nyanza’s Margaret Akidor and Deborah Chemutai. Also making his debut at the continental cross is Jacob Krop even though he represented the country at the 2019 World Athletics Championships in Doha, Qatar. The Form Four student from Chewoyet Secondary School in West Pokot County, made it to the 5,000m final in Doha, despite being a late inclusion following the omission of Robert Kibet and Daniel Simiyu over doping-related shortcomings. Krop said his mission will only be complete if he wins his maiden title on his maiden appearance at his first cross country outing. He said this will also aid in his preparations for the World Under 20 Championships set for Nairobi later this year. “My target is to run well as part of my preparations for the World Under 20. If I do well in Togo, then it will set the ball rolling for both the U20 championships and Olympic Games,” said Krop. He will be marshalling forces with two-time national champion Samuel Chebulei, his school mate Shadrack Kipchirchir, Gideon Rono, Emmanuel Kiplagat and Emmanuel Maruu. The team is expected to report to camp at the Kigari Teachers' Training College, Embu County, on March 22 before travelling to Togo on April 6.