Kenya Sevens team are plotting to pitch camp in South Africa in April after the cancellation of the Hong Kong and Singapore World Sevens Series due to the Coronavirus that has plagued part of the world The two legs will now be held in October. Head coach Paul Feeney said the postponement of the tournaments gives the team a chance to sharpen themselves and remain competitive within the period. “One and a half months is a long period and we need to keep the boys active and sharp before we head for the final two legs in France and England in May. The New Zealand-born coach said he was targeting the quarterfinals in the Los Angeles and Vancouver tournaments in the next fortnight. “We are hoping to get to the quarterfinals in both events. We did not have a good outing in Australasia last month so it's important that we get back to winning ways in the North American leg,” added Feeney. The tactician said the rotational policy for the series is aimed at giving a chance to every player to prove their worth before the final squad of 13 is named in June for the Olympics. "The players are determined and hungry and we will give them a chance to prove their worth with the four remaining tournaments before we select the final squad,” he added. Shujaa face South Africa, Ireland and Canada in Los Angeles. World Rugby have brought back the old format which means the top two teams will qualify for the Main Cup quarterfinals. The teams that finish third and fourth will drop to the Challenge Trophy. Elsewhere, Mwamba Ladies bagged their second KRU women's festival tournament by beating Homeboyz 15-5 in the final at the KCB Sports Club. In the preliminary matches, Mwamba beat Impala 22-0, earned a 12-0 win over Nakuru before beating hosts Northern Suburbs 19-0. Mwamba coach Joseph Baabu was delighted with the win. "The girls have been giving their all during our training sessions and it is paying off handsomely if these first two legs are anything to go by. Our hard work started last year and we and we have learned several lessons,” he added.    