Leaders from the Maasai community have opposed the creation of regional governments as had been proposed by ODM leader Raila Odinga. Speaking during the Narok BBI forum on Saturday, the leaders said that the regional governments will marginalise minority communities. “We the Maa community do not support the creation of regional governments. Instead, let us maintain the 47 counties as they are because the regional governments will increase marginalisation,” Kajiado South MP Katoo Ole Metito, said. Samburu North MP Alois Lentoimanga criticised the proposal as backward and a threat to the gains made through devolution. “When devolution came, our community received independence. Regional governments will take us back to 1963 when certain communities dominated over others,” Lentoimanga said. Similar sentiments were expressed by Kajiado Central MP Memusi Kanchori who advised that minority communities should be treated specially in lieu of their small population. “If it is a must that you do it (create regional governments), do not include Samburu, Kajiado and Narok. We do not want these counties to be merged but to be maintained as they are,” Kanchori said. Opposition to regional governments is part of the resolutions of the Maa community that was presented to Raila by Kajiado Governor Joseph Ole Lenku. During the 2018 Devolution Conference in Kakamega, Raila had proposed the creation of a third-tier governance structure with the addition of 14 regional governments. However, the proposal has encountered widespread opposition. Last week, Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi described the regional governments as an unnecessary burden to Kenyans. “We agree with the BBI report recommendation that the 47 counties must be retained. We recommend that these 47 counties must be made to function with the support of Regional Economic Blocs and full implementation of devolution as envisaged,” Mudavadi said. The Narok BBI forum is the latest in a series of rallies meant to consolidate support for the initiative that was birthed through the handshake between Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta.