 Leader of Majority in the National Assembly Aden Duale on Sunday made good his threat to boycott the Garissa BBI popularisation rally. The vocal Garissa Township MP instead took to his Facebook page to lament that the process has been hijacked by the political class to create confusion, disunity and ethnic profiling. “The BBI as initiated by President Uhuru Kenyatta was an all-inclusive process with the sole purpose of unifying our people, building a cohesive prosperous nation, eliminate the cancer of corruption, address historical injustices, introduce an all-inclusive accountable governance structure and create a national ethos." According to Duale, this should be the single most important legacy of President Kenyatta. "As one of Jubilee leaders, I support the President's initiative,” the post read. He said supported BBI Bomas report with little validation on the chapter on representation and specifically on the resource allocation formula for county governments. He said leaders should strike a balance between population and landmass as a formula for resources allocation and delimitation of electoral units as per 2010 Constitution. The MP said pastoralist leaders will make that a case when they appear before BBI validation forum on Tuesday. "As we embark on BBI national validation forums, we state and public officers must deliver services to the people as a part of our mandate in areas of water, security, education, infrastructure, health, paying pending bills and not use BBI as a reason to a run away from accountability and service delivery." Duale said that as a person who introduces Government agenda in the House he will attend the BBI rallies "if President Uhuru and DP Ruto attend and will at all times avoid divisive and chaotic rallies with messages of hate, insults, political competition". He dismissed such meetings as of no value to ordinary citizens. "I will present the views of my people to the legally recognised BBI validation forum as per presidential gazette notice 264 of 3/1/2020 and make my contribution eventually when the process comes to Parliament." The leader of the majority said he was fully engaged with the parliamentary budgetary process. "The people of North Eastern are facing a lot of problems from insecurity, schools being closed down to census issues which the highest level of government is addressing." According to Duale, those are his primary priorities. He said BBI is in "conception stage". The Garissa rally was uninterrupted despite rumours that youth had been hired to disrupt the forum. Security was tight in and around the venue. 