A suspect in the 'fake' Bomet terror post has been arraigned on a charge of perpetrating a hoax. Appearing before Bomet senior resident magistrate Kipkirui Kibelion, Timothy Koech alias Joseph Langat, was charged with putting up an laarming post of an imminent terror attack at Rift Valley Institute of science and technology (RVIST) in Nakuru on his Facebook account. The message is said to have been circulated in various groups and meant to cause fear among students and Kenyans at large. "Josphat Langat is not my real name, my name is Mohamed from Somalia, otherwise Kenyans easily forget about memories....We will attack Rift Valley Institute of Science and Technology (RVIST) Nakuru whereby it will be worst ever!!! My message to Muslims: Avoid preps during the night, avoid administration...Our team is around Rongai with heavy machinery ready to complete the mission," read the message on the charge sheet. Kibelion pleaded not guilty and was released on Sh100,000 bond. He was ordered to report daily at the assistant chief's office until March 4 when the case is set to come up for mention. The suspect was arrested at Chepng’aina in Bomet central a week ago after the post went, viral eliciting public condemnation. The investigating officers through prosecutor Derrick Wawire had on Monday last week sought eight days to detain the suspect. They argued they needed more time to subject his phone for forensic analysis in Nairobi. Wawire had told the court that the suspect may have conspired with others yet to be arrested to commit the crime and if released he might interfere with investigations since "the matter is of public interest." Lawyer Desmond Leteipa who represented the accused objected to detention, saying it violates his rights. Leteipa said police were in possession of the phone said to have used by the suspect to commit the crime hence, "there is no way he will interfere with the investigation process." He asked for the court to grant reasonable bond terms. (Edited by V. Graham) 