President Uhuru Kenyatta will be heading to the US to attend the 68 US National Breakfast Meeting. According to the State House spokesperson Kanze Dena, the President was invited by the US Congress for the breakfast meeting which will be held from 5th to 6th February 2020. He will be joined by ODM party leader Raila Odinga who left for the US on Sunday. The two leaders have been invited to speak at the international luncheon that will precede the Prayer Breakfast. According to his personal assistant Dennis Onyango,  Raila is scheduled to speak at the International Luncheon on reconciliation, organised by the US National Prayer breakfast team before the prayers. The statement from the State House added that the invitation of the two leaders is an indication of their commitment to the peaceful and constructive resolution of internal conflicts in Kenya and in Africa. "His Excellency the President and the former PM have been invited to attend the US national prayer breakfast is their demonstrated commitment to peaceful and constructive resolution of internal conflicts in Africa, particularly the example the Government of Kenya has set in deepening democratic values, rule of law and inclusive pro-poor development-friendly policies," Kanze Dena said. While in Washington DC, the President will hold bilateral meetings with senior US government officials and the private sector. The President will also be expected to pitch for Kenya as an ideal business, investment, and tourism destination during the meeting with the American business membership groups. He will also engage with the US congress, Chairmen of Finance, Defense and Foreign Relations Committees. In August 2018, at a meeting between US President Donald Trump and Uhuru in Washington DC, a technical working group was established to promote trade and economic relations between Kenya and US. Uhuru's visit to the US will also see the technical working group to promote trade and economic relations between Kenya and US convene. This will be the 3rd meeting of the technical working group that oscillates between Nairobi and Washington DC. It is expected that at the end of the technical working group meeting, a joint statement will be issued announcing the commencement of negotiations geared towards a new Kenya-US free trade agreement.