Kenya national women’s volleyball team, ‘Malkia strikers’ will have a busy build-up period from April ahead of the Tokyo 2020 Olympics Games set for July 24 to August 9, coach Paul Bitok has revealed. Under the guidance of Bitok, Malkia Strikers clinched a memorable berth to the Olympics after a 16-year hiatus when they claimed four momentous wins against Egypt, Botswana, Cameroon and Nigeria in January to seal a return to the world’s most popular sporting event. Now coach Bitok wants the girls to adapt an intensive training regime to ensure they will be able to compete in their group which has Japan, Serbia, South Korea, Brazil and the Dominican Republic. “We have presented a proposal to the government through Kenya Volleyball Federation and National Olympic Committee of Kenya (NOC-K) to train in Slovenia in June ahead of the games. “Initially, we thought of having Turkey for the camp but we settled on Slovenia because other nations like Canada, Australia, Croatia and clubs from the USA will also be there hence we can play several build-up matches before the games,” Bitok disclosed. The renowned tactician said the Malkia Strikers will start their non-residential training on April 1 before moving into a month-long residential camp at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Last week, the government and NOC-K also agreed to have teams proceed for a three-week camp at Kurume City in Japan just ahead of the 2020 Tokyo games. “Many of the players will also have a tough workout during the African club championships in April which they will use as part of their preparations ahead of the full residential camp,” he noted. With Strikers having performed dismally since their first appearance at the Games in Sydney 2000, Bitok intimated that winning two matches will be considered a success especially given that Kenya (19) will be the lowest-ranked team at the 12 nation games. “If we manage to win at least two matches in the group, it will be a good level for the country given our previous performances and then anything can happen from there,” he said. In the knockout stages of the volleyball competition at the Tokyo 2020 Games, the first ranked teams of both pools play against the fourth-ranked teams of the other pool in the quarter-finals. The second-ranked teams face the second or third-ranked teams of the other pool, determined by drawing of lots, which will be held after the last match in the preliminary round.