Political leaders from Northeastern on Saturday urged area residents to seize the opportunity provided for by the Building Bridges Initiative to present their views. Speaking in Garissa during a delegate meeting ahead of rally on Sunday, the leaders from the counties of Garissa Wajir and Mandera said that apart from devolution, BBI is another forum that will best articulate their issues given the marginalization by previous regimes and historical injustices meted on their people. Led by senator Yussuf Haji, the leaders said that devolution has changed the economic well being of the region that used to receive merger resources noting that BBI will give them better opportunity to fill the missing gaps. The leaders drawn from the three counties expressed their hope that that BBI will give them an opportunity to have current predicaments such as insecurity, lack of teachers addressed conclusively. Haji, who is the chairman of BBI, said the initiative was a national discourse that means well for all Kenyans and more for the people of Northeastern. “BBI is a wind that will sweep away anybody who dares to obstruct. We must not put ultimatums to the government but have our issues addressed in a sober way,” said Garissa Senator Yussuf Haji who is also national chairman for BBI. He added: “I accepted this position because I saw from the word go that it meant good for this country. Today I am here as the senator of Garissa county to also contribute to the recommendations that we shall be presenting our memorandum to the technical team,” he said. Elder Aden Keynan said when issues of Northeastern are captured in the BBI, historical injustices should be among the top in the list. “This is another opportunity for us to push for the compensation of those who were maimed in the wagalla massacre among other atrocities and also allow for the healing. This is a matter that should be conclusively dealt with once and for all,” he said. Garissa Governor Ali Korane, who is also the coordinator, said he was happy so far with the way the leadership of the region has taken the BBI. “I want to commend our leaders for showing unity of purpose. The recommendations they have developed that we shall be presenting tomorrow has covered most of the issued bedeviling the region,” he said. Korane said the 2010 devolution that gave way to devolved systems of government and has seen massive allocation to the region was development in the right direction but there were still missing gaps that should be captured in the BBI. Wajir East MP Rashid Kassim said there was need to make the BBI process people centered initiative saying that as it stands the political class seem to be running the show. “There is need to increase the perception that the BBI report and process is people centric. The BBI taskforce ought to adopt adoption of simplified language and format for ease of understanding, translation of report to Kiswahili a well as publication of the report and its wide dissemination,” he said. Kassim further proposed the government to provide an economic stimulus fund to key growth sectors like livestock, agribusiness, transport among others and value addition to create employment growth, social well being and equality in the region. Wajir senator Abdullahi Ali said opposed a move being fronted by some leaders from the region to have security devolved noting that such a move might fuel inter-clan skirmishes in the region and formation of clan militia. He called for an affirmative action to address the existing education crises by allowing D+ and C- grades to be enrolled in teachers training colleges. The meeting was also attended by member of parliament including Abdi Shurie (Balambala), Dr Mohamed Dahiye (Dadaab), Abdikarim Osman (Fafi),Ahmed Abdisalan[Wajir North],Ahmed Bashane[Tarbaj] Mohamud Mohamed[Mandera senator] and Wajir women re Fatuma Gedi.