Embu, Meru and Tharaka Nithi governors have demanded the appointment of a Cabinet and principal secretaries from each of the 47 counties. Kiraitu Murungi (Meru), Martin Wambora (Embu) and Muthomi Njoki (Tharaka Nithi), senators and MPs from the three Mt Kenya East counties reportedly met on Saturday at Safari Park Hotel in Nairobi and agreed to demand the appointment of the senior government officers from each county. Kiraitu told the Star at Izaak Walton Inn that they plan to raise the issue during a BBI rally scheduled for Kinoru stadium on February 15. He said they resolved to all attend and be united in the demand. Kiraitu said the purpose of the appointments of at least a CS or PS from each county is to ensure inclusivity of all communities in the government. “We also supported expanded Executive with the President, deputy, Prime Minister and two deputy prime ministers so that there can be more inclusivity also at the top,” Kiraitu said. He said they agreed to demand allocation of more resources, at least 45 per cent, to the counties for development att he grassroots level. The governor revealed that they also supported the Ward Development Fund, or devolvement of funds all the way to the wards to be enshrined in the Constitution. The meeting, Kiaraitu said, was purely to consult on BBI. Embu Senator Njeru Ndwiga and Meru's Mithika Linturi also attended. Kiraitu said they met to plan on the rally that will take place in Meru for 11 Mt Kenya counties where Embu, Meru, Tharaka Nithi and other Central Kenya counties will be represented. He said there won't be another rally for Mt Kenya West. He said on February 14, they will have a huge seminar in Meru with the leadership of 11 counties to harmonise their positions which they will present at the BBI rally. He said the main emphasis was on agriculture. Kiraitu said they are opposed to the creation of regional governments as proposed in the BBI rally in Mombasa. He said Cabinet secretaries should be appointed from Parliament and outside as it used to happen before the current Constitution. Edited by R.Wamochie