Kakamega High School will host the Federation of East Africa Secondary Schools Sports Association (FEASSSA) this year. Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association Secretary General David Ngugi confirmed the changes, saying: “Initially we had settled for MPesa Foundation but we have not officially settled on Kakamega High School as the main venue.” Speaking to the Star on phone Ngugi added: “The overriding factor that led to the change of venue is that we wanted to take the games to venues which have not hosted the games before. Previously the games have been hosted in Nairobi, Kisumu, Mombasa, Eldoret and Nakuru. We felt that it's time for Kakamega to host this year's games." “Our policy as FEASSSA is to take games to the people. Schools in Kakamega town have good playing grounds and the town has good hotels that will accommodate officials,” added Ngugi. Ngugi said Kakamega High School will also host the national term two games. A team from Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association will mid this month visit Kakamega to inspect facilities that will host the national and regional games. Another team from FEASSSA will visit next month. Kenya will seek to reclaim the title they lost last year to Uganda in Arusha, Tanzania. “Kakamega High School will be the main venue and we have asked Western region officials to help us identify other venues. We intend to host a successful event,” Ngugi continued. He added that they intend to invite schools from Europe to participate in this year's games. “We are members of the International Schools Federation and since we are participating in the inaugural World School Games in China in October, we decided to invite some schools from outside East Africa,” Ngugi added. China will give 80 per cent sponsorship for participating teams. Ngugi did not, however, reveal the countries which have been invited. FEASSSA President Justus Mugisha said they will this year change to Federation of East Africa Schools Sports Associations to incorporate primary schools. Primary schools held their first EA showpiece concurrently with their secondary counterparts in Arusha last year. “From next year, where Kenya will be hosting the event, we have decided that prior to the event kick-off, we will be having cultural and educational programmes where students will have a chance to showcase cultures from their respective nations so that we can learn a thing or two,” he said.