Daniel Moi will be buried with his head facing the sunrise. According to strict Kalenjin custom, the venerable former president should have been buried at night, so he would 'awaken' to the sun. However, since Moi was a staunch Christian, his religion will be respected. There will be a few compromises, however. In the burial on Wednesday next week, a few cultural norms will be observed  owing to Moi's status in the Kalenjin community "That means Moi should be buried in the afternoon before sunset. He can’t be buried during the sunrise or the sunset. However, he will be buried in the afternoon,” Kalenjin Council Chairman John Seii told the Star. Moi's burial will reflect Christian, Kalenjin and state practices — mostly Christian. “Culture has remained rigid but we are being forced to do away with some practices. The burial of our people is no longer a local or tribal issue but in this case a national issue,” Seii said. Tugen elders have selected the gravesite, which must be on the right side of the front part of Moi's Kabarak home. Moi was from the Tugen, a subtribe of the Kalenjin, but some burial rights cut across all subtribes, including the Nandi and the Kipsigis. The grave will be dug by the military and there are possible plans for a mausoleum to be built in his honour. David Chepsiror, 77, a friend of Moi and Kanu chairman in Uasin Gishu, said minimal Kalenjin rituals will be performed because his stature was national, even international, and he was a devoted Christian. “During the burial, the head will have to face the direction from where the sun rises at the home, Chepsiror emphasised. He was speaking in Eldoret with elders Charles Tanui, Daniel Ruto and Joseph Maiyo. They said no other traditional burial rites would apply, apart from picking the gravesite and ensuring the body faces the direction of the sunrise at his home. Moi’s body will not be wheeled into his house once the coffin arrives, unlike the practice of other Kalenjin subtribes. Moi is from the Chumo age group, among the Kalenjins, and traditionally it would have been buried by his agemates — men above 84. In the absence of such elders, Moi will be buried by those from the Chumo age group next in line. In the Tugen community, Moi’s grave would have been sunk on the day of burial, however, the grave will be prepared by the military after the elders pick the site. The elders in Uasin Gishu and Kanu officials have been going around Eldoret town with condolence books so that people can sign at their places of work or at home. “We respected Moi so much, that’s why we are taking time to let as many Kenyans as possible sign the book and say something about Mzee," Chepsiror said. He said the condolence books would be delivered to Moi’s family on the burial day. Family members who spoke to the Star said the state, family and friends were involved in the final preparations for the burial. Military officials told the Star that the three arms of the government — the Executive, Judiciary and Parliament — are also directly involved. A 19-gun salute is expected. At the Nairobi Kilimani AIC Church, where Moi used to worship, worshippers said a Christian funeral service reflects someone's life on earth and prays to God that the loved one gets into Heaven. It also aims to give strength to friends and family to cope with their loss. (Edited by V. Graham)