@Waithaka06 Laikipia leaders have accused police officers of failing to fight insecurity in parts of Laikipia West and North subcounties that have experienced perennial cattle rustling leading to loss of life and property. The leaders called for the immediate redeployment of National Police Reservists who were suspended last year by the government. Thy said NPRs can tackle increased cases of attacks by criminals who make away with livestock after terrorising residents. The most affected areas include Matwiku, Kamwenje and eighteen villages where barely a day goes without an attack. Laikipia Assembly Majority leader Peter Thomi said the time has come for the government to hear the cries of the people of Laikipia West, especially Githiga ward which are the worst-affected. Thomi said they are tired of attending burials in the region and fundraisers to aid people hospitalised with bullet wounds inflicted by the attackers believed to be from neighbouring Baringo county. “A fortnight ago we buried a 96-year-old man who was shot and killed at Kamwenje. "Last week we were holding a Harambee for a victim of these attackers who is still in hospital and she needs more than Sh3 million for surgery she has undergone. We are tired!" the MCA said. Laikipia West MP Patrick Mariru said that it is the high time the government put all necessary efforts to make sure that the bandits that terrorise people in broad daylight are stopped. Mariru sad the expansive Laikipia Nature Conservacy owned by reknowned Environmentalist Kukki Gallman has been a hideout for the cattle rustlers who strike at will. “We know the government has all the machinery including police choppers and drones to go into this bush and flush out these criminals. We cannot continue burying our heads in the sand while we are being evicted from our rightful land through killings and threats,” Mariru said. The leaders spoke at Gathanji Primary School in Laikipia North during the commissioning of five classrooms built through the NG-CDF. It was attended by National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi who said Laikipia residents were in their rightful place and no one would force them out. Former speaker Francis Kaparo called for peace meeting wth leaders from Laikipia and Baringo to iron out the problems. Kaparo said that in Laikipia North they had celebrated the last three consecutive Christmas holidays with peace due to good leadership but lately it has fallen apart. Laikipia North MP Sarah Lekorere said since the government withdrew guns from over 800 NPRs who had been deployed in Laikipia, intruders have found a soft target where they can kill maim and steal livestock. “This is the time the government gave us back our guns so that the NPR can protect us. These criminals know that we are helpless and they are armed to the teeth to the extent of even killing police officers,” she said The leaders called on Muturi to take their cry to President Uhuru Kenyatta, saying their cries have been falling on deaf ears (Edited by V. Graham) 