Second half tactical changes by Gor Mahia paid off as the Kenyan champions came from behind twice to edge Naivas 3-2 in a Betway Shield Cup round of 32 encounter at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani. On a day where five Kenyan Premier League teams struggled to sail to the round of 16, Gor had Boniface Omondi and Lawrence Juma to thank for their goals at the death, which earned them a date with Posta Rangers. Gor assistant coach Patrick Odhiambo said: "Naivas came firing from all cylinders and honestly, had we not changed tact, we would have been eliminated. We had to take risks and play with two defenders and it paid off. We committed numbers in their half and they succumbed. At least we face a familiar opponent in the round of 16, hence it will be easier to plan." Naivas defied odds to break for the breather leading 2-1 thanks to goals from Kingsley Owuor and Rashid Hassan. Tanzanian winger Dickson Ambundo had replied for Gor who seemed to struggle to make inroads in the final third. Earlier, at the same venue, Kariobangi Sharks secured a 2-0 win over Nairobi Regional League side Kenpoly FC. Sharks saw the outfit to book a place in the round of 16 and assistant coach Ezekiel Seda is hopeful that yesterday's performance is a step in the right direction as they chase a fourth successive appearance in the Shield Cup final. "We have a chance to win the Cup. The result is a morale booster as we will meet familiar teams in the next round. Kenpoly were good especially in the second half but we beat them on experience. The gap between the top flight and the league they play in not massive," said the former AFC Leopards midfielder. His Kenpoly counterpart Geoffrey Ojwang said: "We were nervous in the first half and gave them a lot of respect. By the time we grew in confidence the damage had already been done but we focus on our league matches." The result saw Sharks book a date with FC Talanta in the next round. Elsewhere, KCB laboured to a 4-3 post-match penalties win over Zoo Youth at the Gusii Stadium after settling for a one-all draw in regulation time. At the same venue, Keroka Teachers Training Institute also booked a place in the next round albeit without breaking a sweat after their opponents, Vihiga United failed to turn up for the match. Ulinzi Stars edged out Luanda Villa 9-8 on post-match penalties while Elvis Rupia's sole goal was enough to steer AFC Leopards past Elim in Kitale. Bandari dumped Kenya School of Government (KSG) Ogopa 2-0 courtesy of goals from Yema Mwama and William Wadri. The round of 16 will be played on the weekend of March 14 and 15.