Two people died and 10 others have been treated at St Joseph community centre after being bitten by stray dogs that have been haunting residents of Dagoretti South for eight months. Residents from Ngando have been trying to kill the dogs when they come across them or when they launch attacks on residents and domestic animals. Speaking to the Star on condition of anonymity, a nurse at the centre said some residents are too poor to pay for anti-rabies treatment. Residents who spoke to the Star also said they felt abandoned by their leaders who do not respond to their cries. They also blamed them for not taking any responsibility in dealing with the stray dogs. The residents are also worried because they do not have exact figures on how many stray dogs are in the area. They speculate some dogs belong to drug dealers who live along the rail line at Lenana while the others may have been abandoned by previous owners. Josephine Koenga's six rabbits were attacked and killed by the dogs. She could not trace the owners of the dogs and opted to contact a local vet but could not get any help from him. She reported the matter to Ngando police post under OB number 09/16/01/2020. “After reporting to the police, he was ordered to quickly respond to his duties the following day in the morning but it was in vain. Who else should we turn to if the authorities do not want to respond?” she asked. On phone, the vet said they were yet to receive traps from Pangani dog farm since last year. Genesis, a resident, says he has killed eight stray dogs by setting traps for them after they tried to attack his chickens. “I do not care whose dogs they are. If they try to disturb my peace, I will kill them,” he said. Residents urged the county government to hurriedly get rid of them all or find treatment as soon as possible. In May last year, the county government set aside Sh100 million to kill stray dogs for the next year. Veterinary Services director Muriithi Muhari said there were more than 50,000 stray dogs every year in the city. Edited by R.Wamochie