The government will relocate traders working along the abandoned Nanyuki-Nairobi railway to allow for and revived operations. Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia aid his ministry is consulting leaders from all affected counties to come up with an amicable way of relocating the traders. He said traders have been selling their wares along the abandoned railway line in Mbombo in Murang’a and Karatina and Chaka in Nyeri counties. Macharia said the government is committed to ensuring their lives are not disrupted. “We are working with all the governors to help relocate the traders, mostly women, so they can continue with their daily lives. We will facilitate relocation to ensure business continuity,” Macharia said on Friday. He said it may take as long as two years for the line to be fully renovated and more time will be allocated to areas used by traders. The 240km line has remained been abandoned for about a decade and most of its stations were vandalised. The CS, who was speaking in Murang’a, said the rehabilitation of the railway line is one of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s strategic interventions to connect the entire country. “The government constructed a railway from Mombasa through Nairobi to Naivasha. Now it is time to connect the Northern Corridor which starts from Mombasa to Malaba and the Lapsset corridor from Lamu to Isiolo, all the way to South Sudan." Macharia said connecting the two corridors will bring development and further boost transport services. “Even fuel will be transported through the railway,” the CS said. The government announced that rehabilitate will cost Sh3 billion. The Kenya Railways Corporation said it will raise Sh1 billion while the rest will be paid by the government. Rehabilitation will be done in three concurrent phases to hasten its completion. Macharia said the project will be implemented along with the Keno Marua dual carriageway that starts in Thika and ends in Nanyuki. In Nyandarua, the government is building a road from Naivasha, Njabini, to Murang’a to join the 540km Mau Mau Road. This connectivity is expected to bring development to the people. " Edited by R.Wamochie