An Embu MCA found herself in trouble after calling for breathalyzer introduction at the county assembly to test colleagues she claimed attend sittings while drunk Nominated MCA Margaret Lorna Kariuki elicited the wrath of her colleagues when she said some of them attended sittings while intoxicated. She proposed the introduction alcoblow outside the chambers. Temporary speaker Phillip Nzangi asked Kariuki whether she believed that some MCAs would be dishonourable enough to attend sittings while drunk.  He termed the allegations as serious and bearing far-reaching consequences if proven. Nzangi further warned that the claims by Kariuki attributed improper motive to MCAs characters. Kariuki made the allegations in reaction to Ruguru Ngandori MCA Muturi Mwombo who described her as a sycophant. The House was debating on the performance of various county departments, during which some MCAs said the executive is disrespecting the assembly as some executives have been snubbing summons. Nzangi asked her to substantiate allegations but she declined and maintained that she would not name the individuals she thought to be habitual drunkards. The comments drew the interests of several other MCAs who audience of the speaker to comment on the issue. Evurore MCA Duncan Mbui warned that the accusation of MCA being drunk was recorded on the Hansard and was likely to paint all ward reps in the House as irresponsible alcoholics. The speaker cautioned that demanding for breathalyser machines introduction in the House would indicate some MCAs attend sittings while drunk and that the issue may be blown out of proportion on social and mainstream media. He demanded the retraction of the statement. Kariuki stood to her ground and asserted that it was not illegal to propose for  the introduction of alcoblow at the assembly, arguing that she was protected by parliamentary privileges and immunity. She later succumbed to pressure by her counterparts and withdrew on condition that she is not referred to as a sycophant in the future.