A prison officer was held at Iten police station in Elgeyo Marakwet county after he allegedly defiled a Form Three student during the half-term break last week. The officer who is attached to Tambach GK Prison as a driver is accused of luring the student at Sing’ore Girls High School whom he took to his rental house in Tambach town where he detained and defiled her. Keiyo North OCPD Moses Kanyi, who confirmed the arrest, said the 17-year-old was reported missing last week when schools closed for half-term break. The officer is said to have lured the girl into his house where he sexually abused her for the period she on mid-term holiday. “We are holding a prison officer in our cells after he allegedly lured a Form three student and took her to his rental house and defiled her for one week,” Kanyi said. The police chief said the suspect would be arraigned on Monday. Police have a medical report from Tambach subcounty hospital where the girl was examined on Saturday which they will use an exhibit to press charges against the officer. “The minor has also recorded a statement with the police narrating how she has been sleeping with the officer for the one week she was detained in his house,” Kanyi said. According to Kanyi, parents of the girl had reported her missing, prompting a search for her with the help of members of the public. It was during the search that one of the residents tipped the police he had seen the officer with the girl heading to his rental house on the week schools closed for half-term break. The police arrested the prison officer who took them to his house where they found the girl relaxing. They took the minor to Tambach subcounty hospital for medical examination in the company of the handcuffed prison officer who was also examined. Kanyi warned officers against involvement in crime, saying they were supposed to be individuals helping to enforce the law. “Discipline is paramount in the operation of officers and therefore they are expected to help keep law and order in the society and not be part of those engaging in crime,” he said.