Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumab Murkomen has chided Jubilee MPs supporting the BBI while wreaking havoc in the party. Murkomen on Thursday said it is ironic for the legislators to purport the country will only unite if President Uhuru Kenyatta, who is also the party leader, works with the opposition. Murkomen was speaking during the funeral service of Mzee Robert Mwaura Gitau in Kandara, Murang’a county. "Haatuwezi kusema ukweli kama Wakenya ya kwamba tunaunganisha Kenya lakini tunavunja Jubilee. Haiwezekani ya kwamba tutasema hatutaki Uhuru afanye kazi na watu wa Jubilee lakini Kenya itasonga mbele akifanya kazi na watu ya opposition," Murkomen said. (We cannot purport to be speaking about uniting Kenya while breaking Jubilee. It is not possible for us to say Uhuru cannot work with members of his party and that Kenya will only unite if he works with those in the opposition). Murkomen who doubles as the Majority Leader in the Senate said such a move will be a clear indication of what the Bible terms as 'lying to oneself'. "Unity must start with us in the Jubilee house. If we want to unite the country and  those in the opposition, we in Jubilee must start by setting a very good example by demonstrating the unity," he said. Murkomen's sentiments were echoed by Deputy President William Ruto, who asked Jubilee legislators to stop the petty misunderstandings and focus on their agenda as the party has enough room to accommodate everyone from youth, women and the old. "Jubilee has enough room for all of us, let no one feel humiliated. Let us unite and do that work together with respect and discipline," he said. Ruto said the Jubilee government will ensure Kenyans are united through BBI. He maintained that President Uhuru Kenyatta's administration remains focused on fostering unity among all Kenyans and advancing its development agenda. "Tusikuwe na wasiwasi na hio maneno ya BBI, tutaiendesha kwa utaratibu na kwa njia ambayo itahakikisha kuwa Kenya imeunganika kama taifa moja," he said. (Let us not worry about the BBI, we shall conduct it in a manner that will unite all Kenyans to ensure we are one nation).