Police have arrested alleged two ring leaders of ruthless Mombasa gangs. Benedict Muliro Wafula and George Leo are being detained for questioning following attacks in Kisauni. Detectives have made dozens of arrests in the past, but this time they are targeting the most lethal leaders, hoping to 'cut off the head of the snake' and destabilise the gangs. On Friday, a security officer who has been part of the crackdown in Kisauni revealed that following this week's events, other gang leaders have been profiled. Those targeted operate in Changamwe, Kisauni and Likoni. “We want to be tactical this time by dealing with most lethal members,” the officer said speaking in confidence because of the sensitivity of the matter. In a rare show of unity, police and members of public dealt a blow to the gang, killing eight alleged criminals in five days, one of the largest takedowns in a short time. Police felled two gang members in Shanzu on Sunday after a chase and recovered a Turkish-manufactured pistol. On Wednesday, members of public cornered some gang members who were breaking into shops in Junda and lynched one of them identified as Abdallah. alias ‘DulaDula’. DulaDula's burial on Thursday, groups of gangs in police jungle attire and face masks launched revenge attacks. But the public and the police collaborated: five of the suspected criminals were killed. Detectives interviewed by the Star said gang warfare has escalated because of ded[-root drugs business rivalry in Kisauni and Likoni. Yesterday, the Mombasa county commissioner said 135 gang members had been identified for possible arrests. Kisauni OCPD Julius Kirago said that most of the criminal gang members have been escaping from one subcounty to others to evade police operations. “Some suspects have surrendered and they are helping us net critical members,” Kiragu said. Most of the youths involved in criminal activities in Kisauni are between 14 and 25 years. Following the week's events, several people are admitted to hospitals with injuries. Two Likoni residents are nursing gunshot wounds inflicted by stray police bullets shot in the air to disperse the Wakali Kwanza gang that attacked spectators watching a football match in Likoni subcounty on Sunday last week. Three Kisauni residents are nursing panga wounds to the head following a gang rampage on Thursday. Police chiefs have been holding marathon meetings to sustain and intensify the crackdown. (Edited by V. Graham) 