Impeached Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu wants the decision of his successor James Nyoro to nominate a deputy governor and name a new cabinet quashed. In his amended petition, Waititu says Nyoro (previously deputy governor) is illegally in office as due process was not followed in impeaching him and administering Nyoro's oath. As a result, he wants orders declaring as unlawful any government established by Nyoro pursuant to his swearing-in on January 31, 2020. Also sought is an annulment of any act or function undertaken by Nyoro in the execution of powers reserved for the governor. Waititu says that on December 19 during the debate of his impeachment motion, the county assembly violated his rights to a fair hearing as guaranteed under Article 50 of the Constitution by refusing to allow his advocates an opportunity to present evidence in rebuttal of the allegations against him. "It was unjust and highly prejudicial to expect me to challenge evidence levied against me, which evidence was not within my access or possession by the time I was expected to defend myself before the assembly," he says. In court documents, he wants Nyoro's swearing-in declared illegal. Meanwhile, the Kiambu county executive committee has sought to be included in the petition as an interested party. It says it has an identifiable stake and legal interest in the proceedings before court. "Pendency and determination of the petition have an effect on the performance of the functions of the Kiambu county executive committee," it says. Justice James Makau directed the matter be mentioned on March 23 to confirm whether documents required by parties in fast-trucking the case have been supplied. Thereafter, the matter shall be referred to Chief Justice David Maraga to empanel a bench to hear the case. In removing a governor from office, the County Governments Act says the quorum for supporting a motion should be two-thirds of the total number of the MCAs. Kiambu had 92 (before the death of Kahawa Wendani MCA Cyrus Omondi), thus the two-thirds amounted to 62 members. Notably, 30 members of the assembly were not present and the same is exhibited by their respective affidavits dated December 19, 2019, and January 24, 2020. The Assumption of the Office of Governors Act says "the committee shall publish, by notice in the Kenya Gazette and the county gazette, the date, time and place for the conduct of the swearing-in ceremony of the governor” and county governor-elect shall be sworn in on the first Thursday after the 10th day following the declaration of the final results of the election of the county governor by the commission.