The Attorney General has said the High Court lacks jurisdiction to handle Miguna Mguna's request to suspend the landing rights of the Lufthansa Group and Air France. The airlines refused to let Miguna board flights to Kenya. In an affidavit, Deputy Chief State counsel Emmanuel Biita says the court has no extra-territorial jurisdiction to adjudicate on matters outside the territory of Kenya. “The court has no jurisdiction to grant or suspend landing rights to international airlines in Kenya as that is within the constitutional purview of the executive under the doctrine of separation of powers," reads the affidavit. Miguna filed the case in court on February 16 accusing both airlines “of willingly and with great eagerness and glee allowed itself [themselves] to be recruited as an agent of impunity and oppression by the Attorney General in order to violate the Kenyan Constitution”. Miguna claims when he sought to check in to board the Lufthansa Airline flight at Berlin Airport on January 7, he was denied because Miguna's entry had been banned by the Kenyan Government with a  'red alert'. Miguna says he suffered the same refusal to board by Air France. “In spite of insisting to the Lufthansa Group and Air France that I had valid Court orders from Kenya requiring me to return, both airlines insisted that they could not act on the basis of those court Orders and would only transport me if it received an advisory from CS Foreign Affairs Raychel Omamo,” reads the affidavit. As a result, Miguna says the court should restrain the two airlines from landing in Kenya except to facilitate his transportation to the jurisdiction of the court. But Biita says the petition is premised on hearsay statements and the orders sought cannot be granted on account of jurisdiction. On January 6, Justice Weldon Korir reissued orders compelling the state to facilitate the entry of the self-declared National Resistance Movement general. The judge said the Director of Immigration, the DCI and National Police Service should not interfere in any way with Miguna's entry into the country. Koriralso ordered that Registrar of the High Court release to Miguna's lawyer or an authorised officer of the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights (KNCHR) a copy of his passport. (Edited by V. Graham)