  The United Nations has made an urgent appeal for Sh7.6 billion to deal with desert locust invasion in East Africa. The UN said there was a need to scale up control operations to prevent a potential humanitarian crisis. The appeal came even as a swarm of locusts crossed into Uganda from West Pokot county. Uganda has deployed 2,000 army officers to fight the locusts according to the country's local media. Uganda becomes the second country in East Africa to be invaded by the desert locusts. The UN said Tanzania remains at risk of invasion. Mark Lowcock, the under-secretary-general for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator said the Horn of Africa is experiencing the worst outbreak of desert locust in decades. “Kenya, Ethiopia and Somalia are so far the worst affected countries and tens of thousands of hectares of croplands and pasture have already been damaged. Djibouti and Eritrea are also infested,” Lowcock said in a statement on Monday. In Kenya, the locusts have invaded Mandera, Wajir, Marsabit, Garissa, Isiolo, Samburu, Baringo, Laikipia, Meru, Tharaka Nithi, Embu, Kitui, Machakos and Makueni counties. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization’s Desert Locust Information Service, the situation is likely to deteriorate as a new generation of locusts will emerge between now and June. On Januray 27, Agriculture CS Peter Munya said it will take at least six months to control the locusts. “The control process has been slowed down by the rains being experienced in some parts of the country and the lack of of chemicals due to the bureaucratic and long procurement process. We anticipate the earliest we can be able to solve the problem will be in six months,” Munya said. “South Sudan and Uganda are at risk and there is concern about new swarms in Saudi Arabia, Sudan and Yemen,” Lowcock's statement said. The desert locusts have infested 55,000 acres in Kenya according to FAO. Ugandan authorities have reported that the locusts entered the country and were seen in Abwalinga and Ngongosowon villages in Amudat district near the border with Kenya. If the rains continue and control operations are not adequate, a desert locust plague could develop in East Africa before the end of the year, FAO warned. “The potential for destruction is enormous where a locust swarm covering one square kilometre can eat the same amount of food in one day as about 35,000 people. This may have serious implications on crop production and pasture across the entire region. This would further jeopardise food security in a context where millions of people are already in severe acute food insecurity,” the UN's locust watch report said.  edited by p. obuya