@alalmaurice  A Kisumu man has accused police of frustrating investigations into a claim of assault he lodged with IPOA against an officer in 2017. Martin Owuor on Sunday told reporters that the Independent Policing Oversight Authority was unable to proceed with the probe because officers at the Kilimani police station in Nairobi have not concluded their investigation. IPOA last year raised concern over inaction on the assault case against a police officer who was attached to Nyakach MP Aduma Owuor. IPOA said it received a complaint from Martin that he was assaulted by Ken Agola in 2017. In a letter dated April 30, 2019 and addressed Kilimani subcounty police commander in Nairobi, the authority questioned why police have taken long to conclude the investigation. “The authority has noted with concern that the period within which your report was expected to reach this authority has inordinately lapsed. Your report is however urgently still required for the investigation and resolution of this matter,” the IPOA letter reads. Martin claimed he was assaulted on April 29, 2017 at the Orange Democratic Movement National Appeals Tribunal where he was representing two clients in a nomination dispute. Former Kisumu county roads executive Vincent Kodera was among those allegedly assaulted. Martin said he made his presentation at about 2:30pm before his clients were assaulted by a man only identified as Angunyo and Agola. He said the offenders stole Sh300,000 and a phone, a Samsung Note 4 from his jacket and fled the venue. The complaint was reported at Kilimani police station under OB NO 27/1/2017 and assigned to investigation officer Omondi Kadijah. The authority says the matter is long overdue and ought to be concluded. “Accordingly, the complaint is hereby forwarded to you for your perusal and action. We would appreciate if you could conduct an inquiry into the inaction and furnish the authority with a full report on the investigations and findings within 21 days from the date of receipt of this letter.”  edited by p.obuya