The business community and captains of industry mourned Kenya’s second President Daniel Arap Moi who died on Tuesday morning. Kenya Bankers Association CEO Habil Olaka described Moi as a steadfast leader who steered the country at the time the banking sector and general economy was undergoing hardships. “The banking sector will remember Moi for his pivotal role in quelling economic crisis that hit the country in the 90s. His leadership was paramount in stabilising and bringing sanity in the banking sector,” Olaka said. Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) Patrick Njoroge  said Moi will be remembered as one of the founders of the nation with a lifelong dedication to public service, love for education, and for his fostering of a culture of peace and national unity. The Central Organization of Trade Union(COTU) secretary-general Francis Atwoli described Moi’s death as a blow not only to Kenya but also to workers in the continent. “Moi was at the forefront in championing for the rights of workers in the country. He dutifully graced Labour days and rewarded employeees,” Atwoli said. "Our deepest condolences to the family of Mzee Moi. May God give his family peace of mind during these trying times," Kenya National Chambers of Commerce and Industry (KNCCI) tweeted. Former KNCCI president Kiprono Kittony on his part said the passing away of President Moi marks the end of an era. ''His strongest legacy is his focus on education, his ability to foster peace and unity and above all the democratic transition he facilitated in 2002. He leaves huge footprints in the sands of time,'' Kittony said. The Kenya Association of Manufacturers termed the late former head of state as a great leader who was keen on economic growth. ''Former President Moi was a very decisive and memorable leader,'' KAM CEO Phyllis Wakiaga said. The East African Business Council (EABC) credited Moi for spearheading the Agreement for the establishment of the permanent Tripartite Commission for East African Co-operation in 1993, leading to the re-birth of the EAC regional integration process. “His vision, commitment, and dedication to embedding the private sector as the engine for economic growth are evident in Chapter 25, Article 127, 128 and 129 of the Treaty for the Establishment of the East African Community,” EABC said in a statement. Business magnate Cris Kirubi said Kenya has lost a statesman and servant leader. ''I've learnt with sadness news of the demise of Mzee Moi. We've lost an ardent statesman, servant-leader who shaped Kenya's and Africa's political landscape. We celebrate his life and honour his legacy as we mourn alongside his family, friends and the people of Kenya,'' Kirubi tweeted. Moi who died aged 95 was a leading farmer and businessman in the country, with his family holding a stake in several listed firms especially in agricultural, banking and media. His economic policies focused on people at the bottom of the economic pyramid, managing inflation by putting commodity prices in check. Although his iron-fist rule has been criticised in some quarters, business leaders said it limited political tension in the country, creating a conducive environment for business.