In December 2019, Edwin Makori, a resident of Nairobi county, travelled to his rural home in Nyasore, Kisii. As others were travelling upcountry to join families and friends for Christmas and end-year festivities, Makori was at his rural abode to uproot tea bushes on his one-and-a-half-acre farm. He had had enough! The 34-year-old father of two tells us that it no longer makes economic sense to rely on tea farming as an income-generating activity. “The local tea factories and buying centres are dens of corruption. Not only are they disorganised, but they have also been taking tea farmers for a ride,” he says. One prevalent problem Makori noted during his time in the trade is the ineptitude of tea factory workers. He tells us that it takes two to three days for tea leaves to be weighed at buying centres, hence, they become flaccid and wither. “Who’ll pay for a product that is not fresh?” he asks. His concerns are shared by Omari Gwaka, a resident of Igorera village, Kenyenya subcounty, Kisii. In 2018, the 59-year-old uprooted all the tea bushes he had planted on an acre of his three-acre farm. “When I started farming tea in the early 1980s, the returns were very good. I could even afford to educate my children unlike now when the situation has become unbearable because of low returns. I have opted to commercially farm sugar cane instead,” he says. Dressed in a brown Greek Fisherman Hat and blue overall coat, Omari shows us the sprouting cane he recently planted. He says that he would not want any of his six children to venture into tea farming as there are barely any returns. “The money you pump into tea farming, including the cost of fertiliser and harvesting, is barely recouped since the expenses are so many,” he says. “Before, we could get as much as Sh16,000 as bonus payout, but, in the latter years, the money reduced to as little as Sh3,000. Worse still, there were unannounced monetary deductions we didn’t understand. Now, tell me, what is the point?” he asks. Makori has turned to Napier grass, cabbage and tomato farming. According to a Kenya Tea Development Agency (KTDA) official in the Kisii tea- growing areas who requested anonymity for fear of victimisation, the rain started beating farmers when the tea sector became politicised. “When Simeon Nyachae was in government, tea farmers enjoyed a boon. But after 2006, tea farming was infiltrated by too many self-centred individuals,” the official says. "Then, during the payout of bonuses in 2009 and 2010, the money reduced substantially because it had been pilfered by the KTDA management." According to the official, the situation went south from there. “In areas like Bomachoge Borabu constituency, there were eight lorries transporting freshly picked tea to the factories. Each lorry made four trips daily, carrying a load of 3,600kg. But, after corruption started creeping in, the farmers went up in arms, demanding answers that weren’t forthcoming,” he says. This prompted many farmers to uproot their tea bushes. The oficial adds that after 2013, the situation deteriorated to a point where only one lorry was in use and it made one solitary trip per day. “Consequently, some tea factories were closed due to lack of the product.” The saying ‘The night is darkest just before dawn,’ might not have rang true with the farmers because things just got worse. This is because farmers who took it upon themselves to ferry their tea leaves directly to the buying centres were shortchanged by staff. “If, for instance, you took 10 kilogrammes to the buying centre, what would be recorded was five kilogrammes. The staff then colluded with top managers who’d then sell the stolen loot to corrupt farmers at different buying centres,” he says Instead of swooping in to save the situation, the directors also became the biggest culprits who’d first divide the bonus money amongst themselves and leave the farmers with peanuts. The farmers thought that the only route they could use to salvage the situation was to choose their directors through the ballot. But they were in for a rude shock as the KTDA elections became a sham. SOKO HURU “Due to the ‘lucrative’ nature of the positions, no director wants to give up his or her elective seat. They have used bribery and threats to retain these positions, some for more than 15 years," the official says. "For instance, a candidate once won an election, but she was openly robbed of her victory. She sought justice through the courts, but the case dragged on for three years. According to our Constitution, a director’s tenure lasts for this same amount of time although there is no term limit. “The culprits are well-connected. Such corruption has pushed more farmers to uproot their tea bushes.” In 2018, farmers who had persevered got a reprieve when various individuals started investing in independent tea-buying centres and factories. Instead of buying a kilogramme of tea leaves at Sh17 like KTDA, the investors were purchasing the product directly from farmers at Sh25. “Thousands of farmers shifted to this model, known as Soko Huru. Unfortunately, the investors’ operations were sabotaged. In fact, some influential KTDA officials made it very hard for the investors to export the product through the Port of Mombasa,” the officials says. Consequently, the investors incurred huge losses, which reverberated down to the farmers. “To remain afloat, the private investors had to revise their buying price downwards from Sh25 to Sh23, then Sh19 and now, they are at Sh17 a kilo, the same with KTDA,” he says. “This has left the remaining tea farmers in a dilemma: They wonder if they should take their produce to KTDA and get robbed but still get a bonus at the end of the year or stick with the private investors who treat farmers fairly but make do without an end-year bonus.” There are no current statistics of farmers who have uprooted their tea bushes and turned to alternative commercial crops in Kisii county. According to our source, many farmers cannot openly confess to having dumped their tea lest they are arrested and prosecuted. “Nowadays, very few farmers trade with KTDA because of long-standing frustrations. They prefer to do business with independent investors,” the official says. Josephat Nyambati says all tea farmers want is fair treatment. The resident of Nyankoba in Kisii started farming tea in 1975 after seeing others enjoy good returns. This prompted him to ditch coffee for tea. “Back then, times were good because the management of our affairs was streamlined. No official, including directors, engaged in fraud. If any farmer had a problem, a solution was found and implemented immediately,” he says. But, times have changed for the 74-year-old. He says two of his sons, since inheriting land from him, have destroyed the crop. And, the mzee doesn’t blame them. “Greed, corruption and theft have become the norm. Officials who have been indicted and subsequently sacked from KTDA have been bribing their way back into office. Moreover, elections have been marred by rigging. Also, we are told that the 50kg fertiliser bags, which we get once a year for Sh2,100 every June, is subsidised but it’s really not.” Mzee Nyambati holds that tea farmers deserve at least Sh30 per kilogramme of tea leaves delivered. He also says farmers should own more shares in tea factories and all directors suspected of graft ejected from office. He says brokers and middlemen should be wiped out from the equation. Mzee Nyambati is among those who continue to persevere. He attributes his endurance to a reluctance to diversify with the hope that the situation will get better. Our source tells us that older farmers, due to ignorance and illiteracy, are the most exploited by KTDA officials. Experts acknowledge that the local tea sector, although a top foreign exchange earner, has been in the doldrums. And, at the epicentre, is the KTDA. Currently, the authority oversees 69 factories in 21 tea-growing counties. Its mandate spans the provision of inputs and agricultural extension, transportation, warehousing, marketing and financing of the tea sector. However, KTDA has been plagued by mismanagement, corruption, sham elections and other vices. Such problems are not confined to Kisii only. In September 2019, a section of farmers in Kericho county, one of Kenya’s renowned tea-growing areas, blocked roads to protest against a bonus payment of Sh14.10 per kilogramme, down from Sh28.70 they earned in 2018. The farmers demanded a complete overhaul of the voting process, which is done on a quota system based on the number of shares held by farmers in the factories serving them. In its place, the farmers wanted a one-man, one-vote system. KTDA has defended itself and blamed the crisis on increased global production and a depressed export market, which in turn have severely compromised prices. The agency argues that the main export markets for Kenya – Pakistan, the UK, Egypt, the UAE and Sudan – have undergone currency devaluation due to economic or political turmoil in the past few years. Since tea farming was introduced by the colonialists in 1903 in Limuru constituency, Kiambu county, more than four million people derive their livelihoods directly or indirectly from the sector, across the value chain. Besides, in terms of tea production, at 439,857 tonnes, Kenya ranks third behind China and India, in annual lists compiled by the UN Food and Agricultural Organization and the American Specialty Tea Alliance. Kenya's tea is one of the top foreign exchange earners, alongside tourism, horticulture and coffee. Ironically, 60 per cent of the total production and exports is by smallholder tea farmers numbering over 600,000. They produced 1.18 billion kilogrammes of green leaf in the 2017-18 financial year, earning a total of Sh85.74 billion. More mind-boggling is that 70 per cent of the farmers have, on average, just 0.5 acres under tea. In total, they cultivate the cash crop on more than 100,000 hectares (247,105 acres). In January this year, President Uhuru Kenyatta addressed the problems bogging down the tea sector. He attributed the woes to the conflict of interest at KTDA. Uhuru said KTDA and the entire marketing structure should be streamlined to ensure that farmers reap from their hard work. “There are some of the operational and governance challenges that have emerged in the last few years. Key among these are conflict of interest by directors and lack of clarity in the decoration of dividends by subsidiary companies,” he said. The Head of State said farmers have been getting peanuts while middlemen and brokers get bigger shares. He ordered relevant agencies to immediately implement measures to correct the mess. Chiefly, the Ministry of Agriculture was directed to ensure that only registered tea growers are allowed to sell the product. The ministry was also ordered to make sure that KTDA pays farmers for not less than 50 per cent of their deliveries. Just recently, on February 3, farmers breathed a collective sigh of relief when the High Court quashed a decision by the Kenya Revenue Authority to tax their annual bonus. The amount ran to about Sh2 billion. It had been backdated by KRA to 2009. Fred Gori, a communications specialist and commentator on social issues, says small-scale tea farmers have all it takes to gain financial independence. “This will be through farmer field schools, financial literacy programmes, farmers diversifying to other economic activities besides tea, automation of the business and lowering costs of production,” he notes. However, he reckons, “It’ll be unrealistic to expect the majority of the farmers to become millionaires with such minimal holdings. A few will, but the majority will just earn enough to survive.” This story was supported by a grant from the Aga Khan University Graduate School of Media and Communications (AKU GSMC) through the Kenya Impact Reporting Fellowships project.