President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga have jetted out of the country to attend the 68 US National Breakfast Meeting. According to the State House spokesperson Kanze Dena, the two were invited by the US Congress for the breakfast meeting which will be held from February 5-6, 2020. Uhuru left on Monday morning while the AU envoy left on Sunday evening. Since the handshake that took place on March 9, 2018, the two have been seen as the epitome of good democracy for uniting Kenyans not just in the continent but globally as well. At the US, the two leaders are expected to talk about the handshake and the Building Bridges Initiative. But what exactly should Kenyans expect from their travel to the United States? HANDSHAKE, BBI The President and the AU envoy are expected to rope in the Americans on what the Building Bridges Initiative is all about. According to the BBI report, Kenya will see the return of the position of Prime Minister if the BBI Taskforce proposals are to be implemented in full. The BBI team appeared to make proposals that would lead Kenyans to a referendum with all proposal made likely to come through Bills or policy changes. The report proposes that Kenyans continue to elect their President who remains the Head of State and Government. The report also says that the Deputy President should remain the principal assistant to the President and will be the running mate. The President will then appoint an MP from the largest party or coalition in Parliament as Prime Minister who will take up the position after being approved by Parliament. These are some of the issues Uhuru and Rail are expected to touch on based on the handshake that brought about the report. The two are expected to explain to the Americans why we might need a referendum and why it should be done before the 2022 general elections. Raila, who is also the AU envoy is expected to speak at the International Luncheon on reconciliation, before the prayers. He will brief the Ambassadors on the Continent’s Infrastructure and continental trade agenda. On Saturday, Raila wooed Ukambani to back the Building Bridges Initiative vouching for it as the way out of electoral violence in the country. He told residents who thronged Kitui that the BBI process is the cure to the bloody violence witnessed in the country every election cycle. In a charged meeting hosted by Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu, the ODM leader rallied the residents to back BBI for prosperity. Raila said the initiative would herald a season of peace and tranquility “where poll winners and losers greet one another after results are declared.” Last month, the US, through its Ambassador to Kenya Kyle McCarter, announced support for the implementation of the report to ensure unity before the 2022 General Election. TRADE The president is expected to work closely with the US government in crafting a trading arrangement that guarantees continued market access for Kenya’s products in the US market after the African Growth and Opportunity Act comes to an end in 2025. Under AGOA, Kenya enjoys Duty-Free Quota Free access to the US market, making the US our third largest export destination. "Uhuru’s visit to the US to attend this year’s US national prayer breakfast will also see the technical working group to promote trade and economic relations between Kenya and US convene," Kanze said on Monday. This will be the third meeting of the technical working group that oscillates between Nairobi and Washington DC. Kanze said it is expected that at the end of the technical working group meeting, a joint statement will be issued announcing the commencement of negotiations geared towards a new Kenya-US free trade agreement. During his visit, Uhuru is also expected to hold bilateral meetings with senior US government officials and the private sector whereby he will meet American business membership groups. In Washington, the President will be expected to pitch for Kenya as an ideal business, investment and tourism destination. He will also engage with the US congress, Chairmen of Finance, Defense and Foreign Relations Committees. Last year during his visit to the US, Uhuru asked US investors to make Kenya their investment destination of choice in Africa. The President said his Big 4 Agenda, particularly the manufacturing component where the government's plan is to lift the sector's contribution to the economy from the current 8.4 per cent of GDP to 15 per cent by 2022, offers limitless investment opportunities for US companies. The President will also engage with the US Congress, Chairmen of Finance, Defense and Foreign Relations Committees. FOOD, NUTRITION Uhuru is also expected to call for investment opportunities in the food and nutrition sector not leaving out affordable housing and Universal Health Coverage. The government targets to construct 500,000 affordable housing units by 2022. Uhuru is expected to rally the American companies to channel their resources into the affordable housing program. On UHC, the President will call for partnerships especially in the supply of specialized medical equipment, the establishment of pharmaceutical companies, upgrading and management of health facilities, and implementation of innovative health financing options.