Political leaders from Northeastern on  Saturday urged residents to seize the opportunity provided for by the Building Bridges Initiative to present their views. Speaking in Garissa during a delegate meeting ahead of a rally on Sunday, the leaders from Garissa Wajir and Mandera said that apart from devolution, BBI is another forum that will best articulate their issues given the marginalization by previous regimes and historical injustices meted on their people. Led by Senator Yussuf Haji, the leaders said that devolution has changed the economic well being of the region that used to receive merger resources noting that BBI will give them better opportunity to fill the missing gaps. The leaders drawn from the three counties expressed their hope that BBI will give them an opportunity to have current predicaments such as insecurity and lack of teachers addressed conclusively. Haji, who the BBI task force chairman, said the initiative was a national discourse that means well for all Kenyans and the people of Northeastern. “BBI is a wind that will sweep away anybody who dares to obstruct. We must not put ultimatums to the government but have our issues addressed in a sober way,” Haji said. “I accepted this position [chairman] because I saw from the word go that it meant good for this country. I am here as the senator of Garissa county to also contribute to the recommendations that we shall be presenting our memorandum to the technical team,” he said. Eldas MP Aden Keynan said when Northeastern issues are captured in the BBI, historical injustices should be among the top in the list. “This is another opportunity for us to push for the compensation of those who were maimed in the Wagalla massacre,” he said. Garissa Governor Ali Korane, who is also the coordinator, said he was happy with the position the leadership of the region has taken on the BBI. “I want to commend our leaders for showing the unity of purpose. The recommendations they have developed that we shall be presenting tomorrow have covered most of the issues bedeviling the region,” he said. Wajir East MP Rashid Kassim said there was need to make the BBI process people-centered, noting that as it stands, the political class seems to be running the show. “There is need to increase the perception that the BBI report and process is people-centric. The BBI task force ought to use simplified language and format for ease of understanding,” he said. Kassim further proposed the government to provide an economic stimulus fund to key growth sectors such as livestock, agribusiness, transport among others and value addition to create employment growth, social well being and equality in the region. Wajir Senator Abdullahi Ali opposed a move being fronted by some leaders from the region to have security devolved, saying such a move might fuel inter-clan skirmishes in the region and formation of clan militia. He called for affirmative action to address the existing education crises by allowing D+ and C- grades to be enrolled in teachers' training colleges. The meeting was also attended by MPs Abdi Shurie (Balambala), Mohamed Dahiye (Dadaab), Abdikarim Osman (Fafi), Ahmed Abdisalan (Wajir North), Ahmed Bashane (Tarbaj), Mohamud Mohamed (Mandera senator) and Wajir woman rep Fatuma Gedi.