Four police officers in Kisumu county are under investigation for allegedly assaulting former Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo and his driver. The officers are said to have assaulted Midiwo and his driver at his residence in Milimani Estate following a disagreement. The officers whose names have not been disclosed later arrested the duo and locked them up at Kisumu Central Police Station without booking them at the Occurrence Book (OB). County Police Commander Ranson Lolmodooni said the officers were not on official duties at the time of the incident. “They were not deployed,” he added. The officers are based at Crime Prevention Unit, Regional headquarters communication, Kondele, and Railways police stations. Lolmodooni said the officers are expected to be taken to court on Wednesday after investigations are complete. The police boss said the officers once charged in court will be interdicted. “The officers have been summoned. We are taking their statements under inquiry before taking further action,” he said. Midiwo's driver has recorded a statement and issued with a P3 Form. Lolmodooni said they are waiting for the former National Assembly Minority leader to record his statement. Earlier, Lolmodooni said Midiwo's driver had been cited for a traffic offense after which the officers followed him to the former legislator’s residence. “The officers are accused to have assaulted Midiwo when he tried to intervene to know what the problem was,” the police boss said. The two later ended up at the police cells on Sunday night. Lolmodooni said they discovered that Midiwo was in custody on Monday morning. He described the incident as unfortunate saying the officers acted unprofessionally and must be held accountable in order to serve as a lesson to others. Last year, Nyanza Regional Police Commander  Vincent Makokha directed all officers within the region to operate in full police uniforms. “All officers on duty must be in uniform including petty crime and all patrol teams. Those attending court cases to do so in uniform,” he said. Makokha said only DCI personnel are allowed civilian attire and directed all commanders in Nyanza to note and comply. This he said would help in accounting for every officer working in the region for effective service delivery to citizens.