Shujaa will be aiming to bounce back in the Los Angeles Sevens tomorrow in  California. The circuit returns to California for the first time in 14 years with the last event having been held there in 2006.  For the last decade, the event has been held in Las Vegas, Nevada. Following an underwhelming performance early this month in Sydney, where Kenya picked up a paltry point, Shujaa face a tricky Pool 'B' where they will open their campaign against African rivals, South Africa, at 10:35 pm. The two sides have met three times this season with the Blitzbokke winning the two opening encounters 17-12 in Dubai and 17-5 in Cape Town before Kenya turned on the tables in Hamilton, winning 36-14  to record their first victory over  Olympic bronze medalists in five years. Paul Feeney's charges will then face Ireland at 1:31 am. The two sides clashed in Cape Town and played out to a thrilling 24-24 draw. Shujaa 's final match will be against Canada 5:35am Kenya and Canada played twice last season with the North American outfit winning both encounters 24-14 in Sydney and 36-21 in Vancouver. Powerhouse forward Oscar Ouma and playmaker Sammy Oliech are back in the squad for the first time in two years and will be given a chance to prove themselves as Feeney rotates his squad with an eye on the 2020 Tokyo Olympics in July. World Rugby have brought back the old format after an outcry from teams and fans over the new format which saw the axing of the quarterfinals. The format in Los Angeles and next weekend's tournament in Vancouver will see the top two teams in each pool qualify for the  Main Cup quarterfinals. Feeney said they have a good week of training in the City and are raring to go for the pool matches. "The boys are in good shape and we need to bounce back and target a quarterfinal place for the next two legs which are very possible,” added Feeney. He said they have worked on several aspects of play from the kickoff reception, tackling technique and defence. Kenya lie 11th on the log with 25 points from four tournaments played.