A section of Nairobi Jubilee MCAs will hold ward level Building Bridges Initiative forums ahead of the final one later this month. The meetings are meant to enlighten residents on the BBI report, assembly leader of Majority Charles Thuo said on Monday. Thuo, who is the Dandora Three MCA, said the meetings will not be parallel to the BBI county editions. “As members of the County Assembly of Nairobi we want to be at the centre of things which take place in Nairobi and in agreement with the members of the Nasa coalition that we will spearhead the BBI talks in Nairobi before the final edition,” he said. But Minority chief whip Peter Imwatok said Nasa ward reps will not be part of the 'confused Jubilee shenanigans.' “As the minority side we know how to go about the BBI and we know the people who have been on the ground since it kicked off in Kisii. They should stop dragging Nasa because we know what the presser was about and they changed because of fear. Why should only 17 Jubilee MCAs speak and not all 66?” he asked. The first meeting is scheduled for Roysambu next week. “We have started the process of identifying the venues and we are going to start at Roysambu and later give the full list of the chosen venues,” Thuo said. According to him, the elected ward reps will mobilise at least 20 leaders from each ward for training on the BBI report. The assembly will ask the BBI secretariat to train leaders to effectively lead the BBI discussions in the wards. In December, the Kenya Young Members of County Assembly Association, through chairperson June Ndegwa, said public participation would be championed by youths. "Through some of our partners, several copies of the BBI report will be printed since not everyone can access it online and together with youths we will go across all 17 sub-counties in Nairobi for the public participation,” she said. Thuo promised city residents of uninterrupted services “despite our governor being barred from accessing his office.” Hamza MCA Mark Ndung’u said the rehabilitation of roads and garbage collection will resume following Governor Mike Sonko's directive. “There is no vacuum in the office of the governor and work is in progress despite the ongoing court cases the governor is facing,” he said. Ndung’u warned the executive not to take advantage of the absence of the governor steal funds. The assembly is on recess until Tuesday next week.