The National Olympic Committee of Kenya launch of the kit for the Team Kenya to the Tokyo Olympics was met with mixed reactions from both the sports stakeholders and the general public. While some hailed the new ‘honeycomb’ design, others observed that it was purely ‘ugly’. Olympic silver medallist Julius Yego observed that the kit was not a representation of the Kenyan heritage and needs a rethink. “It doesn’t reflect our true Kenyan colours,” he said. “I wonder who made that suggestion. I would prefer something I am proud to wear while competing. They should make changes as soon as now.” Volleyballer Trizah Atuka also had her reservations. “This (kit) is a big no! I don’t like it. It doesn’t represent us (Kenyans) in any way and doesn’t appeal at all. It is ugly, in short! However, Rongai Athletics Club coach Bernard Ouma said: “Nike did not get the design and the colours out of the blue.” “There was a Nike survey conducted in 2018 where a number of top Kenyan athletes were involved. Various designs were distributed and they helped to choose the colours and they ended up with close to what I have seen.” “We usually have perceptions and I believe if Kenyans participated in it and brought home a 1-2-3 medal haul, then a liking will develop,” added Ouma. Olympic 5,000m champion Vivian Cheruiyot, who is the Kenyan marathon to Tokyo, said she is comfortable with the new design, having been involved in some activities towards its generation. “It’s a nice kit. I have seen the comments against it but I think it’s because we are used to the dominantly red kit,” said Cheruiyot. "Nike said this a special kit for us and despite the reservations from some people, my views are that it is an individual’s drive to represent the country that matters rather than the kit one is running in.” Boxing coach David Munuhe, who is taking his ‘Hit Squad’ team through their final weeks of training in Nanyuki before they leave for Dakar, Senegal for the African Olympics qualifiers, was among those who gave a thumbs up to the ‘honeycomb’ design. “I think it is a good design and brings in a fresh look for our athletes. We have for a long time used the red plain kit which to me has become monotonous. The printed version brings in some element of change,” said Munuhe, who alongside Benjamin Musa are working out with the 19 boxers who hope to make it to the final team for the Olympic qualifiers. Kenya Sevens talisman Collins Injera said the kit is not representative of Kenyan colours and looks like a honey comb. “It doesn't look nice. We are used to wearing red with a good design but this looks bad,” added Injera. Kenya's top try scorer said the previous kit should have been retained for this year's Summer Olympics in Japan. Kenya Lionesses skipper Philadelpha Olando said the kit is fine from her first impressions. "The kit is fine. I don't see anything wrong  with it." World 3,000m steeplechase holder Beatrice Chepkoech observed that the design for the singlet is alright but has reservations for the track suit.