Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion has blamed the Kakamega tragedy that killed 14 pupils on negligence by the Ministry of Education. Speaking on Friday during the memorial service at Bukhungu stadium for the 14 students, Sossion said Education CS George Magoha and PS Belio Kipsang are to blame for failing to prevent the tragedy. Sossion also dismissed the autopsy released on Thursday, which showed students' died of suffocation. "These students' death was caused by congestion out of the negligence of the Ministry of Education of not guiding the school property," Sossion said. He said Section 64, 65 and 66 of the Education Act demands Equality Assurance and Standards and a committee responsible for school situations. "That is the responsibility of a minister. The law is clear, that the Ministry of Education should establish Education, Standards and Quality Assurance Committee," Sossion said. He added that students' safety has been compromised by the failure to follow the law and allowing a huge number of students in one school. "Last year, Precious Talent Academy collapsed on students. Today, we are here in Kakamega and we don't know where we will be next time," he said. Knut boss demanded that each school that has reported issues before should have reports on public health, public work inspection and quality assurance from the Ministry of Education. "Without those reports, and if another tragedy occurs in the country such as what happened in Kakamega, we will paralyse learning activities," Sossion said. He added that all schools should agree on a specific church that should be allowed in schools as far as spiritual aspects are concerned. Education PS Belio Kipsang said the ministry will donate Sh100,000 to each family that lost a child in the stampede as support for funeral arrangements. The PS said the government is in progress probing the route cause of the stampede even as students resume their studies on February 10. "I, therefore, kindly urge parents of the 3,100 learners to allow our learners to resume classes on Monday," Kipsang said.