  Kisumu MCAs have called for speedy investigations into the cause of a fire that destroyed vital procurement and suppliers' records at the county finance office two weeks ago. Part of the office was destroyed in the February 9 flame on the second floor of Prosperity House. The offices host the directors of budgeting, accounting services, revenue and supply chain management. Kisumu is among counties with issues of pending bills owed to angry suppliers. The county assembly's finance committee has been tasked to look into the matter and report back to the house on Thursday. MCAs want the investigations expedited to establish whether the fire was an arson attempt or an accident. Lat week, East Seme MCA Seth Okumu demanded to know what caused the fire, the extent of the damage and measures that have been put in place to prevent any future fire outbreaks. Okumu said the fire incident had put the county in a bad light. He said the assembly did not want to be associated with such actions. “This is why we asked for a statement from the executive so that we can establish if the fire was deliberate or it was by default,” Okumu said. West Nyakach MCA George Ogutu and North West Kisumu counterpart Vincent Jagongo wondered why the police were taking too long to establish what caused the fire. Jagongo said the conclusion of the investigations will clear suspicion around the fire incident. Earlier, Deputy Governor Mathews Owili said operations in the finance department were running efficiently despite the county losing four computers, two printers and two office chairs. “Investigations will continue to unearth what or who might have caused the fire and the motive behind it,” Owili told journalists on Monday. He said CCTV cameras were on and the footage was being reviewed. Owili said Governor Anyang' Nyong'o was deeply concerned with the happenings. “The governor confirms that his reform agenda in the government and within the department of finance specifically, will not be torpedoed,” Owili said. Residents who spoke to the Star said they suspected arson to cover up an alleged misappropriation of funds. Kisumu Residents Association chairman Audi Ogada said the timing of the fire was suspicious. “We want the issue to be investigated properly and the public to be told the truth if this is a cover-up on something,” Ogada said. He said civil society organisations were concerned with how the county government was being run. “Issues of pending bills have brought untold suffering and pain among contractors and suppliers,” he said.  edited by p. obuya