The girlfriend of a murdered German tourist was on Monday detained along with another man for 14 days by a Malindi magistrate's court. Mary Kavuu and Kensen Mutiso will be held at the Malindi Police Station while detectives conclude their investigations. The body of Herman Detering, 75, a German citizen, was discovered in his Moriema Cottage in Mtangani in Malini town on  January 28. The body was mutilated. An autopsy is yet to be conducted. Detering is said to have retired as usual with his girlfriend who lived with him. The door was locked from the outside and had to be broken down the next day when he didn't appear as usual. Malindi Chief Magistrate  William Chepseba granted the remand request by detectives from the Serous Crimes Unit. In a signed sworn affidavit, detective constable Vincent Langat said the respondents were arrested on January 31 in Diani town and taken to the Malindi police station. ''On January 28, 2020, about 1830 hours or thereabout the manager of Moriema cottages went to room number 117  where the deceased been residing since December 4 2019, after his room remained locked the entire day which was unusual,'' he said in his affidavit. The manager knocked on the door and there was no response, he looked through the window and saw blood on the mattress. Police broke in and found the body with several deep cuts. He said it was established that Kavuu was seen with the deceased person on January 27  on the cottage veranda where the victim lived. He said she later left the cottage on January 28 at about 6.30 and went to Diani and Kwale. ''Immediately after the incident, the first respondent switched off her phone after calling the second respondent,  Mutiso0, and thereafter switched on the phone while in Diani,'' said the detective. Langat said during the arrest ,police recovered several mobile phones and Sim cards, some suspected to have belonged to the victim, together with clothes presumably worn by Kavuu when the incident occurred. The said the items will be subjected to forensic analysis. He said detectives will also search areas the suspects are suspected to have visited with the aim of recovering the victim's other property. He said an autopsy is yet to be conducted and samples will be compared with samples from the scene and the suspects. The suspects will also undergo a psychiatric assessment. The matter will be mentioned on February 17. (Edited by V. Graham) 