Half-time changes by Gor Mahia head coach Steven Polack earned them a hard-fought 3-2 win over Zoo FC at the Kericho Green Stadium as they maintained a four-point gap at the top of the Kenyan Premier League. Gor, who were eyeing to open a seven-point gap between them and second-placed Kakamega Homeboyz, will have Samuel Onyango to thank as his second-half brace inspired them to come from two goals down to narrowly survive Zoo's scare. Homeboyz, who prior to kick-off were fourth, rose to the second spot, eclipsing Tusker who played Wazito to a 1-1 draw after humiliating Chemelil Sugar 6-0 at the Bukhungu Stadium. Gor who were trailing Zoo by a solitary goal at half time withdrew Bernard Ondiek for Elvis Ronack while Onyango came in a few minutes later for Clifton Miheso. Onyango would deflect Ronack’s goal-bound header into the back of the net in the 53rd minute and netted the winner at the death. Nicholas Kipkirui scored Gor’s third goal in the 77th minute. Polack said the two changes breathed life into their performance and showered Zoo with praises for giving them a run for their money. “We made changes at half time and the results were instant. The opponent made it tough for us and I laud them for their display. The changes coupled by the character from the players enabled us to survive the scare and I am proud of them,” he said Zoo had taken the lead in the 27th minute when an unmarked Kepha Ondati headed home a corner kick delivered by Tayo Odongo, who netted their second goal in the 69th minute. While Polack was relieved by the final whistle, his Zoo counterpart Herman Iswekha singled out lapses in concentration for the loss which punctured their quest to beat the drop. Zoo sit 14th with 15 points. “We lost concentration in the final minutes of the game and allowed them to score the winner. The goal should not have stood as my player was elbowed but I am concerned with the way we are conceding in the last minutes. Despite the loss, I have faith we will keep our top-flight status,” he said At the Ruaraka grounds, Tusker’s bid to keep close tabs with Gor was dealt a blow as Wazito scored deep into stoppage time to force a 1-1 draw. Tusker who were second before kick-off had taken the lead through Chrispinus Onyango in the first half but experienced forward Paul Kiongera broke their hearts after riffling the ball past Robert Mboya. Tusker finished with ten men after Sammy Meja was sent off for a second bookable offence. Ulinzi Stars gunned a bottom-placed Kisumu All-Stars 3-2 at the Afraha Stadium. Masita Masuta struck a brace to add on Bernard Ongoma’s goal. John Owino and Gershom Arabe replied for All-Stars.