US President Donald Trump has said it is not easy for him to forgive those who plotted to impeach him. “It is not easy to love sometimes, when they impeach you for nothing, how are you to continue loving them, I am trying folks it is not easy,” he said on Thursday. Trump spoke during the 68th International Annual  Prayer Breakfast in Washington DC. Trump was on Wednesday cleared in his impeachment trial, ending a congressional bid to oust him from office that bitterly divided the US. The Senate, run by the president's fellow Republicans, voted to acquit him 52-48 on charges of abuse of power and 53-47 on obstruction of Congress. Democrats charged Trump in December last year with pressuring Ukraine to smear a potential White House rival. In November 3 this year, Trump will be the first impeached president to go for election. In its historic vote, the Senate decided not to remove America's 45th president from office on charges arising from his dealings with Ukraine. If convicted on either charge, Trump would have had to turn over his office to Vice-President Mike Pence. The Democratic-led House of Representatives approved the articles of impeachment on December 18 last year. Trump said though he was working very hard for America and its citizens, he had been put through a terrible ordeal by 'dishonest and corrupt people'. These people he said have done things to destroy him and his family but at the end of it, 'have hurt America as a nation'. “Yesterday, the Republicans had the wisdom to do what everyone knows was right. I hate people who use faith as a justification of doing what they know is wrong, I detest those who say I pray for you but they know they are not,” Trump said. He said he will continue to build a one nation blessed to live in freedom and worship in peace. Trump said his mission is to see a nation that lives in cherished tradition. "We have a war with enemies and allies, but when we turn to God he gives us the grace to pull through,” the president said. Trump said he will continue creating a culture that protects freedoms. “We don’t punish prayer, we don’t tear down crosses, or  muzzle pastors......, we celebrate prayers and cherish religion. The greatness we have achieved comes from the faith and prayers of our families,” Trump said. He said as a result he had made an executive order allowing the right to  pray in public schools. "We continue to uphold the sanctity of life. This is why through an executive action I froze taxpayers dollars from going to colleges and universities which is only spent on bad things,” the president noted. While saying many are not happy with what he is doing, Trump asked Americans to turn out in large numbers and vote come November 3. "I know they are not happy, but I maintain that every life belongs to God. We need to take care of those premature babies because we believe in redemption,” he said. He said America will continue to stand for prosecuted Christians and minorities across the world. “Faith keeps us free, prayers keep us strong, and only God is the giver of life. Religion is under siege but America won’t let that happen, it will protect it to the latter,” Trump said.