The Elections Observation Group has raised concerns on the high number votes cast on elective posts during election day. The group led by the national coordinator Mulle Musau said there have been staggering elections in the country for a while and needs to be fixed. The ELOG officials spoke when they presented its proposals to the Building Bridges Initiative Steering Committee led by the Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji. Musau said conducting six elections in one day causes a lot of errors and confusion. "Our proposal to separate national elections (Parliament and President) on one day and county elections where we have governors, MCAs... is to improve the efficiency and delivery of better elections for the country," Mule said. ELOG also wants a clear framework of roles played by the IEBC chairperson and the CEO. The group is opposing the proposal in the BBI report to make the chairperson as the chief elections officer. "The proposal to have the chair of IEBC be the chief elections officer may interfere with the normal operations of the secretariat," he said. Instead, ELOG wants a clear mandate for the commission and the secretariat. The group also wants the electoral commission barred from conducting party nominations as well as hearing and determining petitions arising from political party primaries. It said that the party nominations and disputes should be handled by the Political Parties Disputes TribunalInstead (PPDT) which needs to be strengthened. ELOG has also proposed a consistent commission, saying the proposed semi-permanent commission will counterproductive as it will create a culture of short-termism. The BBI report which was launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta on November 27, 2019, at the Bomas of Kenya had proposed that IEBC chairperson should be anyone with at least 15 years experience at a senior management level The other proposal in the report is to hire all the Returning Officers through a system similar to that of hiring Commissioners. It also wants the qualifications for the Chairmanship of IEBC to made open so that it is not a preserve for lawyers. The report proposes the chairperson to be accorded more powers by also doubling up as the Chief Executive Officer of the Commission