Nyandarua leaders have accused the national government of neglecting Aberdare forest, which is a critical water catchment area that serves millions of people. They said at a press conference in Naivasha that the state had instead focussed on funding the restoration of Mau forest as wanton destruction of the Aberdare continued. The forest is the source of water for counties such as Nyeri, Laikipia, Kiambu, Murang'a, Nyandarua and Nairobi. Former Nyandarua Deputy Governor Waithaka Mwangi said the forest is massively degraded and people have encroached on it. He said efforts must be made to conserve the Aberdare forest just like the rest of the water towers in the country. "While the government is taking bold steps to conserve and save other water towers like the Mau and Mt Kenya, the Aberdare forest has been forgotten, despite its significance,” he said at the weekend. Mwangi said that because of the forest, Sasumua and Konoike dams had been constructed to serve residents of Nairobi and Baringo respectively. "Interestingly, the two projects exclude the local community and the much talked about Pesi, Malewa and Kinja dams should be constructed to serve residents," he said. On infrastructure, the lawyer said the county had been marginalised by the government, including past administrations, and had the lowest percentage of tarmac roads in Central Kenya. "Despite having the largest landmass in Central Kenya, Nyandarua has been systematically ignored in infrastructure development and we don’t have any major university or hospital," he said. For his part, Dr Simon Kanyingi echoed the sentiments, noting that Nyandarua is a typical case of historical injustices that have yet to be remedied. The former gubernatorial candidate revisited the move to transfer Nyahururu town from Nyandarua to Laikipia county, despite the massive investment by residents. "Residents of Nyandarua are fully behind the major investments in Nyahururu town through their taxes, but this was handed over to Laikipia without any form of compensation," he said. Kanyingi wants Kinangop constituency split to bring government services closer to the people. The electoral area has more than 150,000 voters. "We hope the BBI team from Nyandarua will be all-inclusive as we want the issue of marginalisation, poor infrastructure and poor process of our products addressed," he said. Other leaders expressed optimism that their grievances will be addressed through the Building Bridges Initiative, which, they said, they fully support.