City Hall now seeks assistance from the National Police Service to help regulate the bodaboda riders within the Central Business District. Previous attempts to control their operations have not succeeded. Hence, the county government believes additional enforcement by the police will tame the riders. For a long time, the riders have been in City Hall's bad books. As a result, in January 2018, the county banned them from the CBD following a surge in crimes. The ban was effected later in May the same year. The riders were directed to drop off their passengers at City Stadium and Ngara but refused to comply. They argued that the move would paralyse their businesses as most of their passengers reach the CBD and its environs. Some 4,190 motorcycles were impounded between that time and March 4, 2019, and their owners arrested. They paid Sh12.7 million in court fines and storage fees. This, however, did not deter them. They stayed put. Last week, director of inspectorate Joseph Kipsang maintained that despite the heavy bodaboda presence all over the CBD, their operations are illegal. "It is illegal that the bodabodas are operating within the CBD and that is why we have ongoing operations to regulate them and extend our hand. We want to ask the National Police Service to give us support," he said. Kipsang responded to questions raised by the county assembly Committee on Transport. He described the riders as "hostile and always using violence when county askaris are on patrol". "These people are hostile even when we try to keep them off the CBD. They are aware their presence is not allowed. The Inspectorate department is trying to do its best to bring sanity in the CBD," he told committee members. He called them criminals and was taken to task to explain why.  "I have used the term criminal because of how they handle themselves in the operations and every time it always results in violence, especially on Luthuli and Kenyatta avenues," Kipsang said. County director of parking Tom Tinega said that their despite their efforts to fix the problem, the bodaboda issue remains a headache. For his part, county Roads and Transport chief officer Fredrick Karanja pointed out that the riders had been left to their own devices by the previous administrations. He said the Mike Sonko administration is coming up with a policy to regularise the sector as highlighted in the Nairobi City County Public Road Transport and Traffic Management Bill, 2018. "The major challenge is that the bodabodas want to come to the city centre and operate how they want, forgetting we have by bylaws and regulations. In actual sense, bodabodas should operate in streets where the PSVs cannot work, but the problem is they want to come to the highways, avenues and everywhere, which is impossible," Karanja said. Committee vice chairperson Mark Mugambi blamed the National Transport and Safety Authority for the failure to properly educate the riders on Traffic rules. He said the riders should not be treated like criminals as they are only trying to earn their daily bread. "The NTSA should take responsibility and educate the bodaboda riders. Also, since the authority has a right to revoke licences, they should come up with tougher penalties... The operators will think twice before breaking traffic rules and regulations," Mugambi said. NTSA deputy director of legal services Robert Ngugi informed the committee that there 50 per cent of riders in the CBD possibly lack licences. "As NTSA, we may organise a national forum where we shall invite all stakeholders and from there get to know the genuine licensed bodaboda operators," he said. More than 4,000 motorbikes since early last year and owners nabbed. City Hall has made at least  Sh12.5 million — Sh2.68 million court fines and Sh9.8 million storage fees.