 Slow land acquisition and delayed compensations have been blamed for the sluggish implementation of the multi-billion Lower Nzoia Irrigation Development Project. Phase 1 of the project involves putting in place flood mitigation structures, including dykes. Project coordinator Edwin Manyonge on Wednesday said they will engage the National Land Commission to hasten compensation so the project can proceed. "We are pursuing various ways of mitigating the challenges encountered, including proactive engagement of NLC to allow the contractor Sinohhydro Corporation to proceed with works where land is available. We are also revising the works programme to bring forward and execute activities whose sites are available," Manyonge said. He was speaking when he led officials from Busia and Siaya county governments in a tour of the project. The project is being implemented in parts of the two counties. The officials later held a consultative forum in Bunyala. Manyonge, who is also the Bunyala scheme manager, said the government approved provisional funds for the contractor to start works. He said a rice mill with a capacity of 5.5 metric tones per hour will be installed near Magombe in Bunyala. Busia water and irrigation chief officer Moses Weunda asked NLC to fast-track the land acquisition s the process can be expedited. He said Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong was passionate about the project and that the county government had enough engineers to offer technical support. The project aims to develop a net irrigation area of 10,000 acres to benefit 12,000 households in Siaya and Busia counties in Ugunja, Alego Usonga and Budalangi constituencies. Five thousand acres will be put under high-value crops and another 5,000 acres under rice and other food crops. Construction of dykes will cover 19kms each in Siaya and Busia. Ugunja deputy county commissioner Daniel Nduti and his Bunyala counterpart Jacob Ruto were present. Manyonge said on-going rains had hampered the construction of dykes. The project is expected to be complete by January 2022 after the contractor was given 202 more days due to compensation delays. While the intake is 95 per cent complete, the physical work is only 15 per cent done. The revised cost for the irrigation component of the project is Sh3.9 billion with Sh1.7 billion set aside for the dykes component.  edited by p. obuya