The Kisii county administration has closed dozens of schools in a crackdown on substandard learning centres. Education officials said the schools will only be allowed to reopen if they meet the required set conditions. The latest to be closed was Ramasha Milimani Academy where 26 candidates, an invigilator, proprietor and some university students were arrested for abetting examination malpractice last year. Sixty-two students at the centre in Kiogoro area of Nyaribari Chache were ordered to get different schools on Tuesday by education officers. Also affected were 10 teachers who have been serving at the school. Kisii county education director Pius Ngoma told journalists in his office that the owner of the school had refused to comply with the set rules. "Everything in the school is wrong and it cannot be allowed to serve as an examination centre,” Ngoma said. He said as many as 100 schools across the county with questionable infrastructural standards remain closed over safety concerns. “They are yet to meet standards hence they will remain out of operations until when the owners feel they have complied fully," Ngoma said. He said regular inspections will continue to avert disasters. “We don't want to reach a level where something happens then we wake up and begin wandering up and down shouting orders,” Ngoma said. He said he will not allow pupils to study in ramshackle facilities which pose danger to them. "It will be absolute madness that anyone will think of investing in poor facilities in the education of children. The government will not allow that to happen," he said. The audit in schools is part of the efforts by the Ministry of Education to ensure the quality of learning in schools, the official said. Last year, the Education ministry ordered its officials to audit buildings for safety, schools’ registration status and compliance with set guidelines. In Kisii, many of the affected schools had not registered with the authorities. More others were operating as daycare centres even as they taught pupils up to Grade 4. In some schools, children were learning in cage-like storeyed buildings posing risk. The closures have caused a congestion crisis in most public schools where the affected pupils were transferred to.