A well-connected official at the State Law Office is causing staff at the Judicial Service Commission to have sleepless nights with his unrealistic ambitions. The official incessantly calls staff at JSC with instructions on how he wants things done at the commission. A staff at the commission told Corridors that the official tells them that he will be the next Chief Justice after David Maraga and therefore people need to listen and do as he says because they will soon work under him. Those who question his authority are threatened with severe consequences in the future unless they change their attitude towards him. When political parties appear before the Building Bridges Initiative taskforce, party leaders are given the honours of making the presentations. They use the occasion to state the party’s position and sometimes their own personal suggestions. When a party leader appeared before the committee, he made his presentation and allowed his deputy party leader to also speak. However, the deputy party leader contradicted his boss on his preferred government structure, which did not go down well with other party officials. Soon after the presentation, an official was heard saying that the party must immediately call a National Executive Council meeting to reprimand and even discipline the deputy party leader for contradicting his boss. A top official in a county in the former Nyanza province has set the tongues wagging with his overnight riches. The man, who during vetting was only worth about Sh5 million, has accumulated massive wealth and is said to be owing residential flats and large tracks of land in and out of the county. Those in the know intimate he is constructing a big hotel in town. Some of his colleagues, however, say the man, who is close to the governor, could be a proxy owner of the vast property. They suspect the county chief could be using the official to accumulate wealth. A married MP from Nairobi is getting into the nerves of some residents of Kibra. The MP is said to have a girlfriend in the area, and is always visiting especially at night. The legislator packs his vehicle at outside a government office in the area and then a bodyguard escorts him into the slum. The leaves the MP at the woman’s house and come back later to pick him. Residents are wondering why the legislator cannot just rent a house for his girlfriend in another estate, where he would visit at any time without having to go through so much difficulty.