Just where did Senate Deputy Speaker and Tharaka Nithi lawmaker Kithure Kindike go to? The once firebrand pro government lawmaker has maintained a shocking low profile in the last few months something that is unlike him. Even his Constituents in the famous Tharaka Nithi are left wondering what might have befallen their good Professor who at one time was being flouted as a possible kingpin for the Mt. Kenya region. The Kindiki’s silence especially on the raging debate of Building Bridges Initiative is so loud that even some of his colleagues were heard whispering last week if at all everything is ok with their colleague. A senior politician from Western part of the country is finding it hard to contain from leaking information about his love affair with a relative. The politician known for his love for anything in skirt - according to our mole - is suspected to have put in a family way a close relative who he was dating secretly. His wife is said to have gotten the wind and thus has forced the poor relative to be ‘exiled’ elsewhere out of the eyes of the wife who is known not to forgive anyone who dares step on her matrimonial territory. Moles have told Corridor that there is ongoing high level negotiation to either relocate the victim to another town as they ponder on how to handle the current embarrassing situation. Corridors is following… Workers in a County in Nyanza are now mortified after a political disagreement recently opened up a series of events around use of ‘African chemistry’ to settle scores which allegedly has been the order of the day in the county but unknown to many.  'Picking someone's feet' as the black operation is known leaves one with swollen foot which does not respond to conventional medicine. Acting in anger recently, a senior Member of the County Assembly opened the lead to the secret operations naming a list of individuals who have suffered from the same black magic. Some of the victims include two senior assembly leaders who suffered the same swollen feet every time they step in their offices. Just to what extreme extent can some people go to have things their way? That is the question majority of workers are now asking secretly. An ex Member of Parliament last month found himself on the edge trying to explain to his constituents his new found dalliance with the governor whom he bitterly campaigned against in the 2017 General election. The Constituents believe that their former lawmaker has joined the notorious cartel working with the County boss to milk dry the county which is currently under investigations by Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) over rampant corruption allegations. The former MP who is eyeing the County’s top seat fearing the constituents’ wrath nowadays dodges the Governor and avoids any physical contact with the governor during the day.