The Council of governors now wants a multi-agency committee put in place to monitor take over of some functions of the Nairobi County. Chairman Wycliffe Oparanya on Wednesday said the committee should comprise of both levels of government and tasked to monitor the implementation of the functions that have been transferred to the national government and those that have remained with the county. In a statement to newsrooms, Oparanya said the council, however, notes that the public needs to be involved in the exercise and public participation is a cardinal principle spelt out in Article 10(2) (a) and 196 (1) (b) of the constitution. "In the same has further been enshrined under section 29 of the Intergovernmental Relations Act which provides that the County Assembly needs to be notified of the decision to allow the Assembly to deliberate on the same," Oparanya said. On February 25, the statehouse announced that functions of Nairobi County Government had been handed over to the National Government.According to the house on the hill, Sonko handed over the functions of the County to the National Government, pursuant to Article 187 of the Constitution State House said that this will ensure Nairobi residents receive services efficiently."The move comes as a breakthrough in the running of county services that had ground to a halt," the statement read. But Opranya said in light of the principle that resources should follow functions, the council anticipates that the national government will continue to channel resources to the county for effective performances of the remaining functions. Soko's administration will remain in charge of Trade; Pre-primary education, village polytechnics; Agriculture; Cultural activities, public entertainment and public amenities; firefighting services and disaster management; and participation of communities at the local level amongst others. His statement came just after the Senate said it has launched an inquiry into the controversial takeover of key functions of Nairobi County by the National Government. Deputy Speaker Kithure Kindiki directed two house committees to immediately invite all the state officials involved in executing to deal to shed light on the matter. Kindiki ordered Devolution and Intergovernmental Committee and Justice and Legal Affairs Committee to summon Attorney General Paul Kihara, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya and Governor Mike Sonko among other relevant officers to explain the deal. The committees shall also hold public participation meetings within the city before filing an interim report within 21 days.