The family Seargent Kiyegon Kenei who was attached to Deputy President William Ruto's office are considering hiring private investigators to probe his death. They have protested how the police are investigating the circumstances under which he was found dead in his Imara Daima home. The Keneis want their private investigators to conduct an independent probe before the police "interferes" with the scene of the crime. "The family is furious with the handling the matter, they have lost confidence in the police," a source told the Star. For instance, they have been blocked from viewing the body at Chiromo mortuary and denied access to his house. The Star has established that the detached servant quarters where he lived, and the bungalow belonging to the family which sublet it had been cordoned off. Kenei's landlords were forced by the detectives to seek refuge elsewhere as the house is under round the clock police surveillance. "Regular police officers are guarding the whole compound in shifts of two officers each day and night. It has been sealed off," the estate's Nyumba Kumi chairman Peter Amunga said. Amunga said that everybody including the Kenei family had been denied access to the house, secured as a scene of a crime by the police. The house in which the officer died has a small kitchen, common bathroom/toilet and a room he used as both bedroom and living room. The house was rented at Sh15,000 a month, while the bungalow is Sh35,000. Kenei's house had a small wrought iron gate within the same block different from the main bungalow. Both the bungalow and servant quarter share the same compound and roof. It is surrounded by a perimeter wall. Most houses within the court including the one Kenei rented do not have CCTV cameras. "The DCI has requested some neighbours to assist by availing their CCTV footage for reviewing to aid the investigations," a source said. The family has maintained that their son, whose body was found lying in his house  Thursday did not commit suicide but was murdered. His father John Chesang said that the family demands justice and answers. The detectives investigating the cop's death also want to know whether an error made on the OB report after the body was found was intentional. They are investigating the date recorded at Embakasi police station when the matter was reported. The matter was reported at the station on OB 31/27/01/2020 report despite the fact that Kenei's body was discovered by his neighbour's house-help on February 20. A detective told the Star that there was lots of information that did not add up which need to be unearthed. "We want to find out whether the error on the date was an intentional or normal mistake," he said. A postmortem on the body was scheduled for February 24. Some of the residents said that they saw Kenei last on Monday. "He was dressed in a black suit and had a mango in the hand," a neighbour told the Star outside the house. The source said several people including those who were first at the scene were yet to record statements with the police. "Only the family in the bungalow have recorded their statements with the police," Amunga told the Star. Police have collected several items from the officer's house including his clothes and a cartridge of the bullet that killed him. Colleagues described the officer as a jovial man. Neighbours said he was always willing to help. Even children in the neighbourhood were fond of him. Other sources say that CCTV  cameras at Harambee House Annex captured Kenei with the investors at the office on February 13. The American investors, who are based in Turkey, are at the centre of a Sh40 billion arms scandal for which ex-Sports CS Rashid Echesa has been charged alongside other suspects. The investigators are also planning to interrogate Kenei’s cousin over a phone conversation they had. Kenei allegedly told his cousin that he was disturbed following the arms incident that had exploded in the media. “Record shows that Kenei was supposed to be off on the day the investors visited the DP’s office. However, he was at the office at the time and took them around from the reception until the moment they entered the boardroom,” an investigator told the Star. “We first have to establish the cause of his death, where preliminary details showed that it might have been suicide and then find out what he knew about the Echesa deal."