A leader of a party among 10 that folded to allow for the Jubilee behemoth in 2013 is crying foul. Days after ex-Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri said President Kenyatta could have duped him into collapsing his GNU party, the politician fears the same fate may befall him. The politician was overhead telling politicians at a restaurant in Parliament Buildings that he regrets having accepted to kill his party for Jubilee. Unfortunately, a safety clause in the Jubilee constitution bars former party leaders from reclaiming their outfits until after 2023 when the 10-year period expires. Goose cooked. A popular Nyanza MP is removing the grass from poor households' houses and replacing it with iron sheets without considering the walls. The MP, who has been posting his newly 'refurbished' houses for his constituents, many argue, has slipped. This is after a constituent, a social media user took him head-on. He accused the lawmaker of taking constituents for a ride. In one instance, the MP's team brought down a poor widow's grass-thatched house, built a new one with iron sheets but did not bother about the mud walls. Some county politicians are planning to remove the MP in 2022 elections. They are coming up with a new concept to build semi-permanent houses for the poor, complete with concrete walls to outdo the legislator. A senior health ministry official said to be at the centre of the messy Leased Medical Equipment Scheme has panicked. After Health CS Sicily Kariku accused some health officials of plunging into the deal, it has emerged that the officer's days in office could be numbered. With the CS already having thrown staff under the bus, the official too might be on his way out. Corridors has been informed the official could have ignored professional advice from technical staff who wanted corrections in technical specifications and terms. The amendments were meant to eliminate some ambiguity to insulate taxpayers from losses experienced so far. Governors and deputies from Mt. Kenya region are in a perilous state on how to deal with the Building Bridges Initiative report. On one hand, are the pressure and threats from the 'the deep state' to toe the line and support the initiative of President Kenyatta and ODM's Raila Odinga. On the other, their political convictions tell them to support DP William Ruto and most MPs from the region. Just last weekend, Ruto visited Nyeri and Murang’ counties and there were no governors or their deputies to receive the DP. But it seems all this is tactical and just for the cameras as most are said to be having regular meetings with the DP.