KCB will be pursuing to move three points within the reach of Kenya Premier log leaders Gor Mahia when they host Kariobangi Sharks today at the Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos in the weekend’s curtain raiser. KCB are ranked third with 38 points, two shy of second placed Kakamega Homeboyz and will be out to gather more steam in their quest to win their maiden league title The bankers have this season set a podium finish as their irreducible minimum and will draw inspiration from the full house squad, which according to assistant coach Godfrey Oduor, comes with a selection headache, thanks to the new players who are raring to go. Oduor said the eight new players brought during the January player transfer window injected competition in the starting team which he believes will play a major role in their title hunt. “All the players are ready for selection and this gives the technical bench a selection headache. :"They have been superb in training and we believe their input will yield the three points. "The players are aware that a win will take us to three points within the reach of the league leaders and they have pledged to drown Sharks,” said the former Kibera Black Stars coach Oduor, who doubles up as the national U-17 assistant coach, further said that his side will not be cowed by Sharks who demolished Kisumu All Stars 8-1 last weekend to register the biggest scoreline this season. “They won their last match in a convincing way and we know they will be seeking to replicate the same. We are not afraid of them but we respect them. Besides digging for the three points, we will be pursuing to improve our overall performance,” he added. While KCB will be gunning to scale up to second, Sharks will hope to build on big win against All Stars and march on in their bid to evade relegation. The former Shield Cup holders who lost 5-2 to their match day opponents in the first leg are ranked 12 with 16 points and eight above the red line. The William Muluya coached outfit has struggled this season, raking in three wins in 19 matches.    