We value our privacy when logging into various social media sites when using various search engines such as Google and applications like Facebook. We do not want the information we have stored on those apps to be used against us. In 2016 when the United States had the Elections, Facebook faced criticism over its handling of fake news as well as the improper sharing of user data with Cambridge Analytica. This came to haunt Facebook and US regulators slapped it with  a $5bn fine. What most people don't know is that there are alternatives to Facebook and Google which can offer you the privacy you need when logging in. DuckDuckGo is one of the alternatives. It is an internet privacy company that empowers you to take control of your personal information online without any trade-offs. It also does not use cookies. If you type something it will not save your search but will take you to the links of the item you were searching for as opposed to Google which saves the item you searched. When you click on the links on the DuckDuckGo, it redirects you to that request so that the destination site does not receive your search items. Though it is safer than any other search engine it does not prevent children from going to any site they desire. Despite this, it is gaining a lot of popularity as people become more aware of privacy concerns related to Internet searches. ProtonMail is another alternative to Gmail where it stores your data using zero-access encryption which means that nobody can access it. When communicating with other users of the service, your messages are encrypted end-to-end. For messages to other users you can apply password protection. Unlike Gmail which can easily accidentally give mail reading permission to third parties, ProtonMail has a zero access encrypted form that does not allow the company to give a government entity access even if subpoenaed. Brave 1.0 is a browser that is privacy-focused, considered to be the fastest. It has low memory usage and fast website loading. The core of its speed is its suite of security and privacy features. Firefox and Chrome have ad blocking and anti-tracking plugins available but Brave has these features built in by default. Fingerprinting is one of the most pervasive online privacy concerns. It is a method advertisers use to track your activities cross-site, letting them build a profile of you without using cookies. Along with the fingerprint, Brave’s Shield Feature blocks a wide range of tracking cookies and invasive ads. It goes beyond blocking outside data from getting in to blocking inside data from getting out. This means that you can use this browser without worrying about background functions sharing your browsing history to Google. With these three services you are assured of your online privacy giving you safety and comfort in using them to search for what you want.