Celebrities including comedian Walter 'Nyambane' Mong’are and legendary music producer Refigah have paid tribute to late President Daniel Toroitich Arap Moi. Moi died yesterday morning after a long illness. Mong'are, who used to portray the President in the 'Reddykyulas' comedy, told Word Is yesterday Moi was a "true leader". "I’ll remember Moi for his love for children. I met him several times and he was a true leader, a teacher and not a politician," he said. "I’ve honoured him continuously and if it wasn’t for him and him allowing me to imitate him, I wouldn’t be part of Kenyan history." Nyambane also said acting as Moi changed his life for the better. "It gave me fame, fortune and recognition and opened doors," he said. The popular comic joined Kenyans in mourning, asking them to celebrate the late President. "We are celebrating his life and not mourning. He lived well and let him rest. Take a minute to thank God for the 24 years he gave us service, whether we were happy about it or not," he said. "Every decision you make can’t please everybody, so there are those who feel he didn’t serve them well and there are those of us who feel he did a fantastic job, so we thank God for that. It’s a celebration for me rather than mourning." Asked whether he was still going to imitate Moi, he said, "Right from the time I came off stage, I said I wasn’t going to do it anymore. Maybe if I was to do a full-length tribute to him but not comedy." Refigah, on the other hand, spoke of the stories he was told by the late President. "I spent two hours at his Kabarak home. It's still very memorable. We spoke about the Turkana-Pokot wrangles and he really wanted it to end so they could live in peace," the producer recalled. "He also told me he grew up with the members of the Nubian community in Baringo as a young man." He went on to give his tribute. "In this sorrowful time, I would like to extend to the family and friends of Mzee Moi my heartfelt condolences. May our Lord comfort you and your loved ones." Classic 105's Maina Kageni wrote: "The end of an era. Rest In Peace, your excellency." Comedian Churchill wrote, "Those who were lucky to see your leadership, we shall never forget you. Mkulima number one, footballer number one, You never came second." Singer Akothee said, "I remember when we used to line up in a long line in West Pokot Ortum Girls on the road to wait for you as you pass with the convoy on your way to Turkana, we were served boxes of sweet milk." Former KTN journalist Dennis Onsarigo joined Kenyans in mourning the retired President. "Former President Moi dies on the very day I was born. Happy birthday to me; rest in peace, Nyayo. Such is life."