Good evening, About 7, 000 teachers have failed to collect their Teachers Service Commission certificates despite applying for them. A report compiled by TSC showed the teachers failed to collect their certificates, which were returned to the commission last month from their home postal addresses. These are the stories make headlines on the Star this evening. Kikuyu community are the most populous in Kenya, census results have indicated. Volume III of the 2019 Kenya Population and Housing Census results released on Friday noted that the community has 8.14 million people. It was followed by Luhyas at 6.82 million and Kalenjins at 6.35million. The three tribes make up almost half of the Kenyan population (44.7 per cent) . The family of sergeant Kipyegon Kenei has ruled out the possibility that their son took his own life. Kenei, who was attached to the deputy president's office, was Thursday found dead in his house in Imara Daima's Villa Franca estate. He had a bullet wound on his head. His elder brother Emmanuel Kenei said Friday that the last time they met, the officer was his usual self. A nominated Embu MCA was on Friday ordered out of the chamber for being skimpily dressed. Both male and female ward representatives complained that Judy Mbuya was sexually-provocative. Mbuya had arrived in the chamber in body-hugging trousers and a short unisex shirt. Her male colleagues felt that her body was exposed, making them uncomfortable. Two pregnant students stuck in Wuhan are now calling on the government to facilitate their evacuation to access medication in Kenya. The two are among 100 students who have been in the coronavirus hit district in China for the last 35 days. A seven month pregnant Olivia Njiri told spokesman Cyrus Oguna that since the lock-down on the disease, she has not accessed medical assistant. KRA will use the single business permit and withholding tax records to track millions of small trade tax evaders. The move is meant to address a tax collection deficit in the current financial year by increasing the collection base. In a circular, the National Treasury and KRA have ordered counties, parastatals, ministries and other government agencies to observe their responsibility as the withholding tax agents for KRA.