The government has closed Kakamega primary school for a week following the death of 14 pupils in a stampede on Monday evening. Western regional commissioner Ann Ng'etich said an investigation would be carried out to establish the cause of the stampede and anyone found capable dealt with. "We're going to open counseling centers both at the school and the Kakamega referral hospital to counsel pupils and parents to come to terms with the occurrence," she said. 13 of the deceased were confirmed dead on arrival to the Kakamega county referral hospital while another succumbed to injuries at Nala nursing home where he was admitted. Two of the critically injured pupils are in the ICU at the referral hospital while two others in general wards. 37 were treated and discharged. The deceased are five girls and nine boys. On Monday, hospital authorities said the four still admitted were in stable condition. The school has a population of 3, 128 pupils. A somber mood engulfed the referral hospital mortuary as relatives of the deceased thronged the facility to view bodies of their beloved ones. They would uncontrollably and others fainted upon seeing the bodies at the morgue. Education CS Prof. George Magoha visited the school on Monday and said anyone found capable would be punished. He said that the school will remain closed until next week. "We have decided to allow our children to rest this week and after that, we will have known the cause of the stampede and re-open it," he said. "A multi agencies team investigating the incident will go to the bottom of the matter. Even if it is an accident we must get the bottom. I am not going to make a finding that pupils started running without knowing why," he said. He absolved teachers saying every human can make mistakes. He said that he had been at the school earlier on an inspection tour and certified it that the school meets all the standards. The CS said that the national and county governments will work together to settle the bills of families that lost their loved ones or those still in the hospital. Kakamega leaders have called for thorough investigations to unravel the mystery. They included Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, National Assembly Majority Whip Ben Washiali, Lurambi MP Titus Khamala and Ikolomani’s Bernard Shinali.