Embakasi East Mp Paul Ongili aka Babu Owino found himself trending on Valentine's Day but not in all a love story after the state sought to cancel his bail on Thursday. But Defence Lawyer Dustan Omari said the money the MP is supposed to deposit as bail will go towards the plaintiff's hospital bill which stands at Sh4.2 million. Omari said, "Babu has met that bill because first, the DJ is our personal friend and as a leader, he has a responsibility to ensure there is life." He accused the state of negligence saying its intention is to evade paying the bill altogether by cancelling Babu's bail terms. Justice Luka Kimaru will rule on the matter on February 27. Kenyans on social media were not left behind as they gave their view on the matter. "#BabuOwino has Moi's blood in him. Shooting people aimlessly can't be termed as a human! His bail should be cancelled! Since when did people start paying cash bails in instalments? Which constitution did the high court judge use? Our judicial system of full of comedy," @Mohmuigai tweeted. @Lowlife_Ke said, "The state's insensitivity by not taking the life of the Dj Evolve very seriously. Babu Owino took Dj Evolve to the hospital and paid the full bill if the shoot was intentional I doubt he would have done all that." @KisiiLion tweeted, "Eti Babu is ready to pay DJ Evolve 's hospital bill 🤔 So what, the man should be at Kamiti right now, four strokes daily" "Babu Owino ought to have known that, if you rattle a snake (the Government), you must be prepared to be bitten by it," another identified as @VictorMochere wrote on Twitter. Babu Owino's freedom is a good example to prove that our Judiciary is a mess. And Jowie proves that our judges hate poor Kenyans, @itsNaibei wrote. The word *sic 'Innocent until proven guilty' is misused by us Kenyans. How do you term someone who shot a DJ in cold blood with all the surveillance cameras serving as proof innocent? He didn't even show he was sorry, @TowerCurl_Calif wrote. DJ Evolve went through a successful surgery which indeed was very risky. If there is any further medication #BabuOwino promised will cater to it. For now, let's pray for him to get a quick recovery — @CharleeOddie1. @Ms_Nyambu tweeted, "People are busy making talks on the Babu Owino's case and the court hasn't given a verdict yet." We will not forget what he did. The courts can bend and twist around but God will offer the best judgment. Quick recovery DJ evolve, wrote @GeorgeOnsase. @Eric_Analyst wrote, "In Kenya, the law protects the rich. They will always get away with whatever they do. That's why people like Obado and Babu Owino are able to be handed bail in days. A chicken thief is also handed 2yrs+ in jail while Corruption Politicians walk free!" "Wait ...someone just said, "Generally, Babu didn't mean to harm DJ Evolve cause he was the one who took him to hospital and after his release he visited him in the hospital. A mistake is not a mistake until repeated." ...damn! People out here trynna do clean up, smh," said one @James_Mukuria. DJ Evolve has been neglected... This boy was hustling. Can MPs mobilise funds we airlift him for specialized treatment abroad, please? I am willing to be MC. Maybe he will forgive #babuowino thereafter. Two wrongs don't make a right,  @DebyTapkutuny wrote. Babu Owino was arrested on January 17 for shooting Felix Orinda popularly known as Dj Evolve at B-Club but was released on January 28. Milimani chief magistrate Francis Andayi released the MP on Sh10 million bail to be paid in Sh2.5 million instalments. The court said the money would be used to settle the hospital bill of the victim. The ruling sparked different reactions, with former Chief Justice Willy Mutunga criticising the magistrate court. Mutunga pointed out that there is no law that called for a suspect the deposit bail money which will be used to offset a victim's medical fee. Edited by R.Wamochie