COTU Secretary General Francis Atwoli has called for justice for the death of a police officer attached to the office of Deputy President William Ruto. The officer attached to was found by a house help on Thursday. Atwoli spoke on Saturday at the BBI rally in Narok county. Sergeant Kipyegon Kenei's body was on Thursday discovered inside the servant quarter he lives in at Imara Daima's Villa Franca estate. Villa Franca estate Nyumba Kumi chairman Peter Amunga said the officer had not been seen for two days. Atwoli said young people should stop dying just because of politics. “When Kibaki was going home he gave the ceremonial sword to one person. The sword was given to Uhuru Kenyatta and he should take it and protect us,” Atwoli said. “Young people should stop dying in people’s offices; our children are dying because of 2022. Uhuru should come out we will protect him. More than four million workers are prepared to go on the street to protect the government of this country.” The deceased was on duty when the Sh39 billion fake military arms deal was being signed by former Sports CS Rashid Echesa and two businessmen. The officer, who was expected to record a statement, had not been seen for two days. A Jericho pistol was recovered from the single room Kenei lived in along with 11 rounds of ammunition. A police report stated Kenei might have committed suicide. He noted that in 2017 May while at Uhuru Park, he had said it is time to relook our constitution afresh and expand on the governance. The SG noted that Kenyan politics goes hand in hand with tribalism and that Kenyans should not close their eyes and pretend that there is no tribalism “After elections those who suffer are children, workers and women. The solution is the BBI,” he added. He further called on Masaai leaders to ensure quarry mining in the area is stopped as it will interfere on the lives of the locals. He also wants SRC to be done away with, saying it contradicts the international Labour Organisations regulations ratified to handle matters wages and employee welfare.