Nyali MP Mohammed Ali has accused the Directorate of Criminal Investigations of being used to finish Deputy President William Ruto’s political career. The lawmaker called on DCI George Kinoti to resist attempts to turn his office into a political weapon against the DP or any Kenyan. “Your office should be used to protect Kenyans and ensure the laws of the country are followed," Ali said." Speaking to the Star on the phone on Monday, the Nyali MP said if the DP has done anything contrary to the law, he should be arrested. “Why is he not being arrested if he has done anything wrong? The Swahili say the tree with the juicy fruits is the one that will be pelted,” Ali said. He said Ruto’s continued presence in the political scene is a threat to the ambitions of "rogue leaders out to use the BBI to take advantage of poor Kenyans to award themselves plum jobs". He said the DP's strong supporters have also been subjected to arbitrary arrests in an attempt to intimidate them. “They might also be coming for me after planting some wrongdoing. Come for me too,” Ali said. However, speaking at Likoni Primary school where she opened four classrooms, Likoni MP Mishi Mboko said no one is after Ruto or his allies. Mboko said the purpose of BBI is to unite all Kenyans including the DP and his allies. "I get sad when I hear leaders speak that way, saying the BBI wants to divide Kenyans along tribal or political lines. Quite the opposite,” she said. The Likoni legislator cautioned against using emotions to criticise what Kenyans have proposed. “Kenya has a history of violence in the election period and that is what the BBI wants to put a stop to." On Saturday in Tharaka Nithi and Laikipia counties, Ruto accused ODM leaders of using the BBI to stoke ethnic tensions. “The ethnic profiling and incitement under the pretext of BBI must stop,” the DP said. He said if the reggae being talked about is to divide Kenyans along ethnic lines, then it must be stopped. On Monday, however, Mboko said the BBI reggae cannot be stopped adding that it wants to unite the country. “Let us not soil the BBI. Many opposed it since the beginning. It is not surprising that they are now using all means to try and soil it,” she said. Ali said the regional governments proposal is a scheme by outgoing governors to stay in power by introducing the extra positions and having them installed in them. He said there is a plot to instalKilifi Governor Amason Kingi as a regional governor for Coast North comprising Kilifi, Tana River and Lamu counties and Mombasa’s Hassan Joho as Coast South regional governor ruling over Mombasa, Kwale and Taita Taveta. “Then there will be the county governors who will be like prefects listening to the regional governor." Ali said instead of easing easing the tax burden on Kenyans, the BBI proponents want to make it even heavier. He said governors with court cases and those who have been accused of graft, murder, fraud and human rights violations have been threatened into supporting the BBI lest their cases are revived. “They have joined hands so they are not arrested. They don’t tell people the truth,” Ali said. However, Mboko denied any plot to keep governors in power. She said the regional governments remain a popular proposal, not a verdict. “When proposals are made, they have to be debated and a decision made in the end using pros and cons. The BBI is meant to reduce the tax burden on Kenyans, not increase it." The Likoni MP noted that the regional governments will also act as unifying factors based on shared resources. She cited the Galala Kulalu irrigation project that serves both Tana River and Kilifi counties. Edited by R.Wamochie