Defending champions Gor Mahia will be looking to redeem themselves from last weekend's 3-1 loss to Sofapaka when they face Western Stima today at the Moi Stadium, Kisumu. Gor were cornered by Sofapaka— stumbling in their bid to open a six point gap at the top of the log. However, the wounded record champions will hope to put behind them memories of the loss and bounce back to their winning ways. Ahead of the match, coach Steven Polack is demanding for a positive reaction from his charges whom he blasted for squandering clear cut chances against Sofapaka. Polack revealed that apart from the duo of Wellington Ochieng and Philemon Otieno who are nursing long term injuries, the rest of the players are fit and raring to go. “It is a new game and we have to recover from last weekend's bitter loss. We were wasteful in front of the goal and I am challenging the boys to react by bagging the three points. We do not have excuses to lose again as all the players are fit and available for selection apart from Ochieng and Otieno who will be sidelined for longer,” said the former Asante Kotoko head coach Similarly, Stima will be eyeing recovery after succumbing 2-1 to league returnees Wazito last Sunday. The power men are win-less in their last four matches and according to coach Salim Babu, the poor run is as a result of a leaking defence. The multiple coach of the month award recipient admitted that his defence was a let down in the last four matches but was upbeat that the new defensive tact adopted yesterday will stop the Gor forwards. Stima are seventh with 31 points “We have endured a bad patch recently due to defensive errors but we have identified and rectified that. We have resolved as a team to approach Gor with the respect they deserve but at the same time pounce on goal scoring opportunities and defend as a unit,” said the 2006 league winner with Sony Sugar. On the same breath, KCB will be out to regain their winning touch after losing by a solitary goal to Kariobangi Sharks last week when they take on Bandari at the Mbaraki Stadium. The bankers are fourth with 38 points while the dockers who will be seeking their first win under Twahir Muhiddin are ranked eleven with 20 points