Good morning, Former Sports CS Rashid Echesa and three others were on Monday charged with attempting to defraud foreigners of Sh39 billion claiming they could award them a Ministry of Defence tender. His co-accused are Daniel Omondi alias General Juma, Clifford Onyango and Kennedy Mboya. They face 12 counts of fraud relating to the tender. Here are the stories making headlines in the Star today. DP William Ruto has asked DCI George Kinoti to quickly complete investigations into the Sh39 billion arms scandal alleged to involve former Sports CS Rashid Echesa. Through his spokesman David Mugonyi, Ruto said his office, Harambee House Annex, was cooperating with detectives. Senior Health ministry officials are on the spot over claims of manipulating a Sh4.9 billion ICT tender under the leased medical equipment scheme (MES). The lot is accused of introducing a clause in the contract - now terminated, which has subjected taxpayers to the risk of paying about Sh4 billion for breach. It is said that grown-up men rarely cry in public, and when it happens they must be deeply troubled. Seafarers with their reputation for stout and hardy demeanour are an even more unlikely source of tears. Yet Thomas Kambi couldn't help but broke down in front of strangers young enough to be his children. City Hall now seeks assistance from the National Police Service to help regulate the bodaboda riders within the Central Business District. Previous attempts to control their operations have not succeeded. Hence, the county government believes additional enforcement by the police will tame the riders. For a long time, the riders have been in City Hall's bad books. As a result, in January 2018, the county banned them from the CBD following a surge in crimes. The ban was effected later in May the same year. The Kenyan government is back on the local debt market by reopening a 20- year bond issued in 2018 alongside a new one of 15 – years, totalling Sh50 billion for budgetary support. In a public notice , Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) said the price for the new issue will be market determined while investors will reap 13.4 per cent yield on the reopened bond.