A key witness in the Sh26.1 million graft case against Wajir county officials has told the court that EACC conducted proper investigations and evidence shows the county lost the money. EACC investigating officer Steve Wanyama during re-examination on Friday morning said the agency gave Wajir county enough time to provide the requested documents on the allegations, but they presented a few. “EACC gave the county time from October 2018 when we requested the documents through its county secretary, but we only received a few in November 2018,” Wanyama told the court. He was testifying against Ahmed Sahal Omar, Daud Abdullahi, Jeff Kithinji Mworia (all county officers) and Sayid Ibrahim (KCB Wajir branch manager) who are charged with conspiracy to defraud the county of Sh26.1 million public funds. The officer further told the court that on November 9, 2018, when the county failed to provide all documents, he had to look for an alternative to get them. When asked to confirm if the money withdrawn was taken to the Wajir governor, Wanyama confirmed to the court that the money was withdrawn from the bank, but he did not find evidence to show it was taken to Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi. Asked why he did not produce CCTV footage in court, he said the footage provided by KCB Wajir branch was for areas he did not need. He also dismissed the defence counsel’s claims that the investigations were pegged on suspicion stating the EACC received a report and any report received must be investigated. On Monday, Wanyama told magistrate Esther Murigi that there was a meeting on October 9, 2018, at the bank involving the county head of treasury Jeff Mworia, Sayid Ibrahim and one of the bank’s operational managers to discuss cheques proving that there was a conspiracy. He said Sayid ought not to have processed the cheques. When asked whether Sayid would have controlled the county’s decision, the officer said he had the power to withdraw the cash. “After the money had been withdrawn, there was a complaint to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission by an anonymous person on the same,” Wanyama said. He said he did not investigate the bank's security system. Governor Abdi will be testifying today. 