Agriculture CS Peter Munya has chided Deputy President William Ruro for launching unplanned and non-funded development projects in Meru. Munya cited some road projects launched by DP Ruto as the main cause of animosity between wananchi from the area and elected leaders in the county. “Some projects were launched even before being factored by the government. There were no funds allocated, no planning and tendering. This was the main challenge with the "tumetenga" (we've set aside) leaders," Munya said. He said the move to launch such projects has now caused problems for the area MPs. "They have now left a hot nail in the wound, a thorn in the MPs' flesh. The MPs have many questions than they can handle because most projects have stalled for more than three years. We know also of some cartels derailing development. Some contractors are lazy as well, they need to speed up,” Munya said. Munya spoke at St Masimo Catholic Church during the burial of PNU nominated MCA Gainchi Kiao. He said animosity between Tigania East MP Gichunge Kabeabea and former area MP — and currently an East African Legislative Assembly member — Mpuru Aburi and a section of residents emanated from the stalled projects. Some of the stalled projects include Thanantu-Mulika-Ngage-Mukothima Road, Mikinduri-Kunati-Gacibine Road, Thangatha Dam, St Ann-Kagaene-Miomponi-Kaboto Road, among others. Kabeabea and Mpuru political differences played out at the burial as Aburi accused the MP of doing little tangible development and the ones completed were factored during his five-year tenure. Kabeabea had refused to address mourners, when MC Mugambi Kiroria called him and instructed he speaks first then invites Aburi. Kabeabea maintained that protocol dictates the MP should talk after other politicians. In this case, he was the one to, invite CS Munya to give his speech. Mugambi told Kabeabea to hold his own function if he was not contented. However, after Mpuru spoke, the MP jumped to grab the mic and accused the EALA legislator of being a betrayer and discrediting his tenure whereas it was still too early. Munya said the two leaders should show love and not allow pressure overcome them. “Don’t take it to be a war, relax. Do not worry because many questions come your way as an elected leader. I am also asked, blamed and drawn on newspapers as the biggest locust fighting locusts,” Munya said. 