President Uhuru Kenyatta is to launch the Jangeta New KCC Milk processing plant. in Meru on Saturday. The head of state is also expected to address the problem of stalled roads, dams and other developments projects. Lawmakers and residents have been complaining about unmet promises. On January 15 Uhur announced a raft of reforms in the tea, coffee, dairy and other sectors. His Mt Kenya backyard had been complaining that he neglected them. On January 26, Agriculture CS Peter Munya inspected the New KCC site and gave the go-ahead for the dairy project. At the site, CS Munya assured residents that the factory will create jobs and more income for dairy farmers. “This factory, a first in this region, will help dairy farmers in Meru sell their milk at better prices, in keeping with the President's directive to support the dairy industry, Munya said. The President gave firm directives on stabilisation of milk markets, coffee marketing and reversing the sudden slump of tea prices. The dairy plant will spur dairy farming in the region "making a and a perfect loop into diversification," Munya said. Speaking to the Star on the phone, Igembe South MP John Paul Mwirigi said he expects President Kenyatta to order ministries to immediately fast-track stalled development projects in Meru He cited roads tarmacking and reviving miraa markets. Farmers want to know what happened to the Sh1 billion Uhuru allocated several years ago to improve miraa farming and markets. “The President promised me tarmacking of several roads during his reelection campaigns including the Kimongoro-Kisimani road, the Athi-Antuamuo-Kiegoi road and Maua town roads," Mwirigi said. The lawmaker also said he hoped the President will direct allocation of more funds for upcoming Nyambene Level 4 Hospital-Kenya Medical Training College" Mwrigi said," He said he also expects the Presiden to issue a charter and gazettement for Igembe Campus to be a constituent college in the region. Igembe Central MP Kubai Kiringo said there are several stalled roads, and the stalled Mal Tatu dam, which had been allocated funding.  (Edited by V. Graham)