Even though they claimed to be celebrating life, an obvious frown on the politicians’ faces told a different story. Many appeared to have ditched their gracious nature that goes with the political ranks and social status for a devastated, sombre look. The biting cold and dark clouds only worsened the mood. Senior government officials, political, religious and business leaders arrived at Lee Funeral Home to condole with retired President Daniel Moi's family and view his body before it could be handed over to the state. Outside the morgue, which stands triumphantly adjacent to the Nairobi Hospital, were packed cars, journalists and military officers. The gate had been locked and journalists were left to view the happenings through the grills, about five metres from the main building. Ralph Bunche, off Valley Road, had been cordoned off and officers in full military gear complete with red berets, were diverting traffic to other routes, except for the state vehicles that were headed for Lee. At around 8.20am, a white private ambulance carrying Moi's remains arrived at the funeral home through the VIP access gate. Behind it were two police vehicles packed with military officers. The officers jumped out, each pulling a white dust coat, which the threw on top of their uniforms, before carrying the body into the morgue. A number of politicians from all generations streamed in one after the other to view the body of the second president and sympathise with the bereaved family. About 10 minutes later, Moi’s son, Senator Gideon, dressed in an ash-grey suit and a plain white shirt, stepped out to officially announce the death of Kenya’s second president, in the company of friends, family and government officials, including CS Fred Matiang’i, Chief of Defence Forces Gen. Samson Mwathethe and Inspector-General of Police Hillary Mutyambai. The senator had been by his father’s bedside when he took his last breath at 5.20am on Tuesday. He wore an unusual frown when he stopped to address the media who were waiting outside — his voice barely audible. “He passed away peacefully, I was by his side and, as a family, we have accepted and mine is just to give my heartfelt gratitude to all Kenyans and non-Kenyans for the prayers and support they have given to Mzee and our family,” he said. The senator then left immediately in a fleet of cars that headed to Moi’s residence in Kabarnet, Nairobi. A section of family members, including the grandchildren, together with politicians stood outside the home as they discussed in low tones. They then started leaving one by one as more and more politicians arrived. Dennis Muthii had been watching from across the road. Even though he did not know Moi in person, he felt an urge to be present at the function. “I just admired him. Some people say he was a dictator, but I think he is the president that Kenya needed at that point. He was firm,” he said. Muthii pointed out Moi’s drive to improve education in the country, especially for women. “Anyone my age cannot forget Nyayo milk. It kept many pupils in school,” he said. Many Kenyans have fond memories of the Nyayo milk that Moi introduced in primary schools. Back at Moi’s residence in Kabarnet, Rongai MP Raymond Moi (another son) said during a press briefing that the best medical science and clinical medicine both locally and oversees could not keep his father alive. “It is three months now since the late president was diagnosed with a medical condition, where he was hospitalised and treated, but God knew his time was up,” he said. He informed the public that his father will be buried in their Kabarak home, Nakuru county. He said the state had taken over the programme and would announce the burial date. “After consultation between the family and the government, we shall be able to give further updates on burial plans. This being a state funeral, the agreement will be communicated by Government Spokesman Col (Rtd) Cyrus Oguna,” he said. Raymond thanked the government for moving swiftly to support the family from the time his father fell ill. He, however, called for prayers "to give the family, the young and old, the energy to go through the trying times". Moi will also be remembered for his strong religious beliefs.