Three people found guilty of defrauding a Kirinyaga couple of Sh19.26 million in a black money scam, otherwise called 'wash-wash' will pay back Sh2.1 million. Makadara law court chief magistrate Hestone Nyaga released Alexander Mugambi, Cyrus Kamau and Margaret Muthoni on condition that they pay the couple the agreed amount within 60 days. The three were found guilty of conspiring to defraud Kirango Gitari and his wife Mary Wambui by falsely pretending that they were in a position to multiply the cash to Sh56,100,000 two weeks ago. Before their sentencing, they, through their lawyers, told the court that they had agreed with the complainant to pay back Sh1 million. When asked how much he wanted to be paid, Gitari said he was willing to take any amount offered, prompting his wife's objection. "We have not agreed on anything with the convicts. The whole matter has rendered us in a vulnerable state; we are homeless and it’s even hard to afford a meal. We don't wish to walk out empty-handed,” Wambui said. Prosecutor Jackeline Kisoo supported the objection, saying the complainants had lost a colossal amount and deserved worthy compensation. "The amount involved is a colossal sum. I leave the court to exercise its discretion in delivering justice. A necessary verdict should follow to reinstate him (Gitari) to the position he was prior to the conspiracy,” he said. After a standoff, the magistrate allowed the two parties time to reach an agreement. "I can as well send the convicts behind bars but you might not have an opportunity to recover the lost cash. If they have agreed to pay, it's better when they are out,” Nyaga told the couple. Following a long discussion, the parties agreed on Sh2.1 million — Mugambi and Kamau giving Sh1 million each, while Muthoni would pay Sh100,000. Muthoni, through her lawyer, said she is a woman of no means and her children have since dropped out of school. She asked for an opportunity to make things right with the "only relative" she has left — Wambui. Nyagah ordered that the matter be mentioned after 60 days for the court to find out if the money has been paid. The three were convicted on January 17, after the complainants found themselves entangled in a fake money printing business. Before they were conned, the couple had been paid Sh13.9 million by the National Irrigation Board in compensation for a parcel for construction of a dam in Kirinyaga. Wambui had gone to settle a Sh90,000 soft loan she had received from her cousin to enrol her daughter in a university. Unknown to her, the cousin, who was aware of the compensation, had been scheming on how she could get a share of the millions. When Wambui and her husband went to repay the debt, Muthoni introduced them to a "money cleaning scheme", which she explained would "make each note give birth to another". It’s much later after the suspects switched off their phones and could not be traced that the couple realised that they had been conned out of their cash.