The families of the 15 children who died during the February 3 stampede at Kakamega Primary School on Friday finally received the money donated by well-wishers. Each family that lost a child received a Sh200,000 cheque. Families of seven pupils who were hospitalised with injuries sustained in the panic induced rush received Sh50,000 each. Parents had earlier complained about the delay in releasing the funds despite the money having been raised to cater for funeral expenses. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya explained the cause of the delay in releasing the funds collected by well-wishers, saying, "We thought it best to let the families grieve first, but today we want to close this chapter. There is no replacement for life even if you are given Sh100 million, but this is just to cushion you financially during these tough times," he said. The governor said the funeral committee received Sh6,050,000 from well-wishers including the national government and the Council of Governors. The money was distributed equally among the affected families. Thirteen families were given Sh276,000 each, while two families of Islam faith were given Sh300,000 each as they did not incur the cost of coffins for their departed children. All the 15 pupils who perished in the stampede have been buried in different parts of the county and beyond. The county government incurred Sh1.2 million in hospital bills, mortuary charges and organising the funeral service. A total of Sh350,000 was given to parents of the seven children who were severely injured during the stampede, with each family getting Sh50,000. Police have yet to release details of their investigations into the cause of the tragedy. Parents expressed concern that they had to date not been told what caused the stampede, even after Education CS George Magoha promised to do so three days after the incident. "When the ongoing investigations are completed, the report should be made public to ensure that there won't be a repetition of the same in the future," Oparanya said. Ombudsman has said that parents who lost their children in the stampede were entitled to compensation since they died in school. 