Parliament will summon the Commission on Administrative Justice over the decision by the TSC to transfer non-local teachers Northeastern. National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale has said the CAJ–also known as The Office of the Ombudsman–will receive the summons next week. There has been a growing education crisis in Northeastern following mass transfers of non-local teachers due to insecurity. Northeastern leaders and educationists have been calling on the government to take disciplinary action against the Teachers Service Commission officials who are effecting the changes. Duale added that CAJ needs to explain to MPs if it has moved to address the controversial transfers. “The commission is abusing its mandate by withdrawing non-local teachers," the Garissa Township MP said. He further added that CAJ will also explain its stand on the leadership wrangles that have rocked the University of Nairobi. Duale made the remarks at a Nairobi hotel during the launch of CAJ’s 2019-23 strategic plan. With him was National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi who asked the Ombudsman to address unfair treatment in the public sector. “This office must be down there in the villages. We want you to be felt in the grassroots,” Muturi said. CAJ chairperson Florence Kajuju said the commission will open an office in Garissa next week. The CAJ seeks to address discourtesy or misconduct, incompetence or ineptitude, misbehaviour in public administration, improper or prejudicial conduct, abuse of power, oppressive and unfair treatment or unresponsive official conduct and failure to adhere to the constitutional principles in government institutions. TSC has already transferred all non-local teachers from Garissa county over insecurity fears; with those for tutors in Mandera and Wajir counties underway. Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers secretary general Akelo Misori welcomed the move saying their safety is crucial. “We cannot have teachers working in fear. Such teachers cannot deliver,” he said. The Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims has called on the national government to take action against TSC for the transfers. National organising secretary Abdullahi Salat said the mass transfers are tantamount to playing into the hands of the terrorist group al Shabaab. Edited by R.Wamochie