Deputy President William Ruto has asked politicians to avoid using the Building Bridges Initiative to imposing fear to Kenyan by submitting to their demands "whether they like it or not". The DP said that it is irresponsible for leaders to bypass the views of the ordinary Kenyans yet BBI should accommodate everyone. “Kenya belongs to all of us and no one should force Kenyans to accept that things must go their way,” Ruto said. Ruto was speaking on Sunday during a church service at Soul Harvesters International in Dandora, Embakasi North. He reiterated that Jubilee administration was focused on implementing its manifesto and would not be destructed by the talks around the BBI. “We must deliver on our mandate as government even as we engage in this robust discussion about uniting our country, Ruto said. Ruto further asked politicians not to use the BBI debate to undermine the church. MPs who accompanied the DP questioned ODM party leader Raila Odinga’s move to call for a referendum to pass the BBI report. Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua who accompanied Ruto dismissed the calls to hurriedly adopt the BBI report yet Kenyans are not aware of its content. Gachagua added that Kenyans would not support blindly a document whose content is strange to them. "How would we support something we have not read?" Gachagua said. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria said that there were plans to amend the constitution to deny Kenyans the opportunity to elect the leader of their choice. "The plan is for MPs to be bribed in Parliament to choose a President for you," he said. Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro said that there is a group of politicians that had hijacked BBI and were using it to divide the country. "We can see that there are those who are using BBI to divide Kenyans. We tell them Kenyans are not stupid," Nyoro said. Kandara MP Alice Wahome asked politicians to be honest in the ongoing BBI discussion and exercise what they are advocating for. Wahome said that "we cannot build bridges by preaching division, disunity, hate and conflict". Other MPS who accompanied the Ruto include Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichungwa,  James Gakuya (Embakasi North), Benjamin Mwangi (Embakasi Central), Gitonga Muragara (Tharaka),  Beatrice Nkatha (Tharaka Nithi), Josphat Kabeabea (Tigania East) and Josphat Kabeabea (Tigania East). Kabeabea asked leaders to lead by example as they preach unity among Kenyans. “If BBI could not unite Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu and Moses Kuria, how would it unite 50 million Kenyans?” Kabeabea asked. Nkatha asked politicians who wish to ascend to power to stop using BBI and referendum and instead seek the support of the people.