To many Rift Valley residents, Daniel arap Moi was the embodiment of a great leader. The retired President left a mark in all corners of the country, more so in Rift Valley where he was born and raised before he became a national fixture. Sorrow engulfed the region - from the southern border with Tanzania to the border with Ethiopia and north-west with South Sudan and Uganda - after the news of his demise early Tuesday. The phenomenal growth of Eldoret and Nakuru towns is associated with Moi's 24-year governance. He had homes and expansive farms in among other places Kabarak in Nakuru and Maji Mazuri in Soy a few kilometres from Eldoret. Kabarak was his preferred weekend retreat home. Moi loved education and he often visited schools to motivate learners or attend Sunday prayers with them. He founded many public and private institutions among them Moi University,  Eldoret International Airport, Moi Referral Hospital, Nyayo Tea Zones in Nandi,  Kabaraka University and Kabaraka High School. Highlands Girls School, Eldoret, became Moi Girls High School during his tenure. Eldoret resident Benjamin Leting remembered Moi as a great leader. "He touched the lives of many people directly. I had a chance to meet and talk to him whenever he was in Eldoret.” The man popularly known as Nyayo stopped by the roadside to talk to residents. “He was generous and helped many people directly,” Leting said. Governors Jackson Mandago (Uasin Gishu), Stephen Sang (Nandi) and Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet) joined in mourning the former President who died at 95. Tolgos said: “As a county and a region, we are greatly saddened by Mzee’s passing. He contributed a lot to the development of this region and is literally the foundation of most of what we can see in terms of development.” The governors suspended what they had lined up in honour of Moi. “We join the family of Moi and Kenyans in mourning his death. We wish them God’s strength as they go through this period,” Sang said. Uasin Gishu Woman Representative Gladys Shollei said Moi had achieved a lot for the country. “Mzee has passed on but his legacy will live long. His work is evident all over Kenya and no one does not know who he was. We celebrate and thank God for what he did for this country,” Shollei said. Former State House Controller Frankline Bett worked with Moi for more than 15 years. "I can say he was a great and hardworking leader,” he said. According to Bett, Moi woke up as early as 5am to prepare for the day. He wanted everything to run orderly. The residents the Star talked to said Moi mentored many of the regional leaders, especially Deputy President William Ruto and Soy MP Caleb Kositany. “We knew him as Nyayo and he wielded great power and used it for the good of the country. He loved this country. I mourn his death,” former Assistant Minister Francis Mutwol said. Kanu official Paul Kibet said Moi established a great network with leaders and ordinary people. "He knew everything that happened in all corners of the country. He had great wisdom," Kibet said. 