Nduru Boys are keen to dominate Kisii Secondary School games after sending four teams to the County bonanza. Nduru dominated the Gucha Sub County championships winning the rugby 15’s, basketball and handball titles over the weekend. “I’m happy with our performance at the Sub County level. We want to have the rugby and handball teams at regionals,” said the school’s games master Chris Omollo. In handball, Nduru, enjoying home support, upset Kisii County champions Tabaka 17- 13 in closely-contested game. In the semis, Nduru beat Nyabigena 19-10 while Tabaka overcame Nyakembene 16-8. “It is the first time we are going to the County level and my target is to lift the title,” said Nduru coach Kevin Wandera. His Tabaka counterpart Mark Mochache said: “It is not over yet. We are heading to the County level to defend our title. I have some areas to rectify before then.” Nduru Girls will make their handball debut at the County level. Nduru, coached by Samuel Maticha defeated Ramoya 15-5. “At the County level, we are going to compete not participate,” said Maticha. Nduru Boys dethroned former Kisii County champions St Joseph’s Nyabigena in rugby 15’s. In the deciding game, Nduru narrowly beat a stubborn Nyabigena 8-0 in a tough match. In earlier matches, Nduru coached by school principal J.J Masime walloped Nyagichence 53-0 while Nyabigena defeated Nyagichenche 24-0. Nyabigena, however, had sweet revenge on Nduru Boys in the 7’s rugby, winning the deciding game 17-5. In basketball, Nduru Boys defeated Nyabigena 31-15 to win the title. In the girl’s category, Riosiri beat Amaiko 8-6 to win the Sub County trophy. Nyabigena showed little respect to Nduru beating them 4-1 to win the boy’s hockey title while Amaiko will represent the Sub County at the County level, having qualified without kicking the ball. They didn’t have opponents. Kisii School narrowly defeated Kisii County champions 45-42 to lift the Kisii Central Sub County champions. In earlier games, Kisii School thrashed Kegati 151-6 while Nyanchwa also beat Kegati 117-0. In the girl’s category, Kereri Girls retained their title after beating Nyanchwa Girls and Kegati. In the opening game, Kereri beat Nyanchwa 42-2 and also had a 57-0 victory over Kegati. Kegati narrowly beat Kisii School 14-13 to win the boy’s handball title while Kegati also retained the girl’s title after a hard-fought 11-9 win over Kereri Girls.  Nyamache Boys and Nyabisase will represent Nyanchae Sub County in boys and girls' handball respectively. Nyabisase will also represent the Sub County in boys’ basketball and rugby 7’s. In Kisii South, Itierio Boys will seek to regain the county’s rugby 15’s title. Igonga will represent the Sub County in rugby 7’s and boy’s handball. Kisii County champions Itierio Girls and upcoming Suneka High qualified in girls’ basketball while Itierio Boys retained the boys’ basketball title.