The DPP has urged a Nairobi court to withdraw a case in which ex-Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama and Makadara MP George Aladwa face incitement to violence charges. In addition, the two politicians through Counsel John Khaminwa tabled in court a High Court judgment that declared Section 96A of the Penal Code unconstitutional and sought for the withdrawal of the charges. Justices Jessie Lesiit, Luka Kimaru and John Mativo declared the section unconstitutional as it shifts the legal and evidential burden of proof to the accused. The judges said the section is not only in conflict with Article 50 of the Constitution but it offends the common law in that “it is always for the prosecution to prove the guilt of the accused and that the proof must be beyond a reasonable doubt”. The judgment was delivered on January 29. The DPP was thus prohibited from charging Muthama with incitement to violence over a 2015 incident. Appearing in court for two separate mentions, chief magistrate Francis Andayi directed that he will rule on whether the two will be acquitted on Tuesday. Muthama is charged alongside activist Japheth Muroko, alias Japheth Thuranira and are out on Sh100, 000 bail each. Aladwa was separately charged with a similar offence. Court papers say that Muthama uttered (in Kiswahili), "From Friday next week, if teachers will not have been paid, nobody will go to work and whoever goes shall be stoned." The remarks were made during a Cord rally at Uhuru Park on September 23, 2015. The prosecution said it indicated that it was desirable to bring death and physical injury to Kenyans. In December, the court declined to dismiss the case, claiming the application was premature given the DPP was yet to give directions on the way forward. The application seeking dismissal of the case had been filed by Muthama's lawyer John Khaminwa. “I cannot give a substantive order such as dismissing a case in the absence of an accused person. The application is premature and the only logical thing to do is to fix a hearing date,” Andayi said.