A contractor has been directed to complete the Sh 1 billion sanitary landfill in Murang’a  by the end of March. The Nairobi Metropolitan Services Improvement Project (Namsip) has threatened not to pay the contractor the full amount due if he misses the deadline. The solid waste management facility that is being constructed on 50 acres in Mitumbiri area in Maragua subcounty. It has been under development since 2018. But the project was halted by Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia after residents complained of a lack of adequate public participation. They complained the groundwater would be contaminated because organic waste from Murang’a county will be buried and compacted in the ground. Namsip embarked on a vigorous public participation exercise and convinced residents the project would work to their advantage and would not allow any seepage of waste into the aquifer. MCAs were also taken to Tanzania while MPs were taken to South African to benchmark on the landfill technology before the construction works started early last year. Namsip project coordinator Benjamin Mwangi said the contractor has so far been paid Sh600 million. “If the contractor fails to complete the project by March 31 then he will not receive the remaining Sh400 million from the World Bank,” Mwangi said. The facility will process more than 250 tonnes of organic waste produced in Murang’a county every day and will operate for 20 years. The landfill technology, with an impermeable barrier between waste and soil, is being implemented for the first time in the county. It is considered the best method of handling biodegradable waste as opposed to open dumpsites. Njenga said once the landfill is completed, Namsip will then establish other structures and measures to facilitate the collection and transportation of waste to the facility. Addressing the County Development Implementation and Coordination Committee (CDICC), Njenga said the construction process was delayed by the torrential rains late last year. Committee chairperson Mohammed Barre said security would be provided to help workers extend working hours to beat the deadline. After it is completed, Namsip will take over its activities and hand it over to the county government after a year. The landfill was initially meant to process waste from the five counties under the Nairobi Metropolitan area,  including Murang’a, Kiambu, Machakos, Nairobi and Kajiado. This plan caused an uproar from Murang’a residents who rejected the project and wanted it transferred to a less agricultural area. The landfill is expected to revolutionalize environmental conservation in the county and dramatically improve hygiene. Namsip has already tarmacked a 4.5 kilometres long road from Kabati to Gikono. (Edited by V. Graham) 