 A legislator allied to Deputy President William Ruto, has dismissed BBI proponents as fraudsters out to live off the gullibility of Kenyans. Nyali MP Mohammed Ali said most of those supporting the initiative only want to be relevant politically, fearing they will disappear into oblivion after 2022. “It is a union of con men,” Ali who was Jicho Pevu in the media before he became MP. He spoke on Saturday after distributing Sh35 million bursaries to students in his constituency. The first-time MP said governors serving their second and final terms are most vocal in their support of the initiative as they stand to benefit the most. Ruto has warned a section of ODM leaders to desist from propagating ethnic animosity under the cover of BBI. He said in Tharaka Nithi and Laikipia counties on Saturday: “The ethnic profiling and incitement against communities that we are witnessing under the pretext of BBI must stop.” Ali said the BBI will overburden already overburdened Kenyans with more posts. Most of its supporters are rooting for, besides the presidency, prime minister, two deputy PMs and eight regional governments. “This BBI is not meant to unite Kenyans. It is meant to unite the rich,” the MP claimed. According to him, the rich do not care how much they spend on the initiative as long as they have their way. He alleged that the initiative has already gobbled up more than Sh18 billion, a claim dismissed as propaganda by BBI supporters. “Give me just Sh3 billion and I will build you a well-equipped, state-of-the-art hospital in Mombasa so that the poor do not have to go to India for treatment,” Ali said. He said he is yet to witness the unity and inclusivity aspects of the BBI initiative. “Why has it not united President Uhuru, ODM leader Raila Odinga and Deputy President William Ruto? How can it unite 47.5 million Kenyans when it cannot unite just three leaders?” the MP asked. Ruto said President Kenyatta's BBI version was never meant to undermine or infringe on the rights of Kenyans or any community. “Why are some leaders pushing for a model of BBI that goes against the spirit of inclusivity and development of our country?” he questioned. Ali said those castigating him for his alliance with Ruto are idlers. “It is not a must that your friend becomes my friend and your enemy becomes my enemy. Ruto is my friend and will remain so.” He did not understand why Ruto was being called a thief yet he has never been arrested for the crime. “They just want to spoil his image because they see him as a threat. The tree with the juiciest fruits is the one that is stoned the most,” he said. 