A woman who gets pregnant shortly after delivery is likely to give birth to a premature baby, experts have warned. In addition, research shows that the child will have a high risk of dying early or having low birth weight which is detrimental to their health. Women are advised to wait at least 18 months between giving birth and getting pregnant again. This spacing gives the body time to fully recover from the last pregnancy before it's ready for your next pregnancy. Health and Nutrition Specialist at World Vision Kenya Daniel Muhinja further advises that during the pregnancy period, mothers should be encouraged to attend four Antenatal Care visits, at minimum. The check-ups will enable health practitioners to monitor the mother and child and thus can assist in identifying and reducing health risks. “For Kenya to attain its dream of universal healthcare, the well-being of mothers and children needs to be taken care of,” Muhinja said. He added: “One of the major ways of attaining this goal is by enhancing access to maternal, neonatal and child health services, including family planning for all women in need of them.” Statistics released by the Health ministry show that Nairobi County leads in both the number of hospital maternal deaths and fresh still births. The statistics were released at the just concluded 2nd Annual Conference on Maternal, Neonatal, Child Health and Nutrition at Safari Park. The data shows that Nairobi county maternal deaths stand at 134 while fresh still births are at 1,045. Nairobi was among 14 counties that account for over half of the reported fresh still births in the country. Others are Kiambu with 539, Nakuru (461), Mombasa (449), Kisumu (339), Kakamega (447), Kilifi (530), Kisii (284), Nyandarua (276), Bungoma (311), Kitui (315), Mandera ( 301), Narok (442) and Siaya with 319 fresh still births. “HIV tests done during ANC visits give mothers an opportunity to take recommended measures that will prevent the transmission of the disease to the unborn child.” According to the statistics, 45,904 fresh still deaths and 10,441 maternal deaths were reported in the country in the last four years. In addition, the majority of the counties mentioned above also account for half the reported facility maternal death in the country. “At the time of birth, it is important for mothers to deliver in a health facility. But reaching the hospital is not enough. While there, mothers need to receive quality care,” Muhinja noted. The official has reiterated that health facilities need to be well staffed. In addition, health practitioners offering care need to be well trained and prepared to avert arising medical complications that can jeopardise the health of the mother and child. This, he said entails having adequate medical supplies and equipment that can enable health specialists to perform their roles effectively. “We also need to address the nutrition gap in Kenya to ensure that all children are well nourished. This will enhance proper body and mental development that will enable them to reach their full potential in life.”