The price of a 20kg bucket of Irish potatoes has doubled since December. On Monday, a 20kg bucket was retailing at between Sh700 and Sh800 in different markets within Nairobi. In December, a similar bucket was selling at between Sh400 and Sh500. Timothy Njagi, a research fellow at Tegemeo Institute, said most crops were waterlogged following heavy rains that started in October last year to January. "Farmers harvested very little or nothing from their farms and this eventually increased prices of food, especially tomatoes and potatoes," he said. Njagi blamed the high cost to the potato planting cycle in the country, which he said starts in March and ends in June. "During these months, there is less crop in the farms, hence high prices due to the supply and demand force." According to data released on Monday by the Ministry of Agriculture, a 50kg bag of Irish potatoes is retailing at Sh2,500 in Nairobi, Sh2,000 in Eldoret, Sh1,800 in Kitale and Sh3,200 in Mombasa. "We expect the price to continue increasing in the coming week to a high of Sh800 per 20kg bucket. Few farmers are growing the crop so the supply is low against a high demand," Njagi said. Martin Wambugu, a farmer from Kieni West in Nyeri county, said most of the crop was destroyed by the October-January downpours. "Most farmers did not harvest much as the potatoes started rotting in the farm. The few farmers who have a crop are at the mercy of brokers. The brokers are buying the extended bag of 70kg at Sh2,000, instead of the recommended 50kg bag. We are now preparing land for the next planting season and hope to get a good harvest," he said. Wambugu said a 50kg bag is selling for Sh2,000 at the farm gate, while a 20kg bucket goes for Sh350. He said on a good season, farmers sell the same bag at between Sh4,000 and Sh5,000. Wachira Kaguongo, the National Potato Council of Kenya chief executive officer, said prices of potatoes are normally high at this time of the year and will keep increasing by April and May due to scarcity.