President Uhuru Kenyatta’s nominee for the Health Ministry Mutahi Kagwe now says the National Health Insurance Fund needs serious reforms for the government to achieve its Universal Health Coverage. Kagwe said the system of NHIF should not be corporate because it is not designed to make profits and thus cannot be categorised under the Company’s Act. The former Senator while appearing before the vetting committee in Parliament said the 2019 amendment to the Act was ill-advised to make social insurance part of a regulatory framework that goes to corporate “Mr Speaker this should not be the case since it is a service that the fund is providing. All we urgently need to put in place is put a CEO in place and ensure that the existing range of products is designed to fully benefit all Kenyans,” he said. Kagwe was responding to a question from the head of the vetting committee Speaker Justin Muturui who sought to know why there were over Sh6 billion on several bank accounts under the fund. Muturi sought to know where the interest on the money was being taken to yet the money is meant to assist the country improve health system and offer better health care. “When we start commercialising this money, it loses the social aspect for which it was desired for initially,” Muturi said. But Kagwe said the first reform is to ensure all the monies that government is paying to private insurance companies is redirected to the NHIF pool to broaden the base in which it will be calculated what amount an individual should be paying. “If we have a government paying the private sector and leaving out NHIF then the fund is going to be perpetually broke. We need to raise the revenue, to allow us to access sufficient care with this card,” Kagwe said. He said two years ago, the government moved away from the police forces, teachers, MPs and other key dockets from the fund but a time has come when all that money should be redirected to the NHIF pool. He said if individuals want to grow over and above from what NHIF can do, they should do it from the private sector. Kagwe said he is optimistic under his watch Uhuru’s UHC agenda is achievable. So far the government has allocated Sh21 billion to facilitate the roll-out of the UHC programs across the country after a successful pilot program. With regards to international medical services, Kagwe said there should be a proper engagement with respective countries to achieve hospital to hospital, doctor to doctor and country to the country relationship. This he said will play a key role in easing the burden of Kenyans travelling abroad to seek medication. Kagwe said some of the treatment being sought abroad can be done here with the proper equipment and doctor skills. "Why is it that Mr Speaker in these countries doctor conduct successful surgeries while off location if we get these resources in the country we can do it,” he said. Kagwe said another area of focus would be the professionalism of all caregivers. He said while in a country like India treatment is handled as a small conference, in Kenya it is handled singularly where mistakes are made leading to misdiagnosis. “Ethics among doctors and nurses must be seriously addressed. Those going to their private facilities must be discouraged to infuse professionalism because this has encouraged doctors to operate below what they have been trained for,” he said.