Fafi residents have no problem with non-local teachers working in Garissa county, MP Abdikarim Osman has said. Non-local teachers are constantly targeted by al Shaabab militants. Most non-local teachers posted to Garissa have sworn never to return to the county, citing attacks by al Shabaab. “We are one nation and thus should live peacefully. Do not give a person a reason to fear going to any part of the country,” Osman said on Saturday while condemning the killing of innocent people. Osman spoke when he toured areas invaded by desert locusts in Mumoni, Kitui county. He was accompanied by Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya. Osman said they have been holding meetings with security heads to discuss ways of protecting people, including non-locals, in the area. On January 13, three non-local teachers were killed in a suspected al Shabaab attack in Kamuthe, Fafi subcounty. The militants set Kamuthe Administration Police Post ablaze after outgunning security officers who were manning the camp, forcing them to flee to a nearby thicket. A communications mast was also destroyed during the attack. Survivor Joshua Mwangani vowed never to return to work, saying only God’s mercy saved him during the attack. Teacher Felix Kimanzi said they undergo hardships such as spending nights in the bushes for fear of being attacked at night and lack of water. Following the attack, non-local teachers, especially those in Fafi and Garissa sought transfers from the area. Most of them were from schools in Fafi, Holugho, Ijara and Dadaab subcounties. The TSC in February transferred more than 3,000 non-local teachers from Wajir, Mandera and Garissa counties. The majority of those moved were of Christian faith and had vowed to quit teaching altogether if the TSC did not transfer them. Osman also said not only Somali Muslims are members of al Shabaab group, but other religions and communities as well. “According to our religion, the Quran does not encourage taking other people’s lives,” the MP said. Previous attacks On January 7 this year, four pupils were killed during an attack by al Shabaab militants in Saretho area, Daadab subcounty. The militants also blew up a communication mast. In 2014, 28 non-local teachers travelling to Nairobi for the Christmas holidays were killed by militants near Mandera. 