Good evening, Speaker of the Nairobi County Assembly Beatrice Elachi has welcomed the move by President Uhuru Kenyatta to have the national Government take over key functions of the county government. Elachi while addressing journalists at her office on Wednesday said the move has breathed life to Nairobi. Here are the stories making headlines on the Star this evening. The late Sergeant Kipyegon Kenei died from a single contact gunshot wound, postmortem results have revealed. The postmortem showed that Kenei died a day or two before he was discovered. The results revealed the body had no marks of struggle by the officer. No other wound except the bullet entry one under the chin and its point of exit at the forehead. The University of Nairobi Vice Chancellor Stephen Kiama has apologised following a memo that blamed female students for being careless, hence easily raped. Earlier, the acting Director of  Security and Safety Services accused female students of becoming victims of rape and robbery due to their recklessness. The memo dated February 24 noted that from the three rape cases reported female students were to blame. The Teachers Service Commission has maintained it will not post teachers to North Eastern if the insecurity situation is not fixed. TSC boss Nancy Macharia told Parliament that the right to life supersedes the right to education and called on the government to improve security in the region. "If our teachers today are assured of security and safety, we will post teachers in the afternoon," Macharia told National Assembly's Education Committee. The Atheists in Kenya Society want religious education (CRE, HRE, and IRE) removed from the school syllabus. They also want God be removed from the National Anthem. The society wants all religious specific subjects abolished and replaced with a subject called Religion, Belief and Values (RBV). Shortage of chemicals and the mobile nature of locusts are the biggest challenges the government is facing, Agriculture CS Peter Munya has said. Munya spoke when he appeared on Wednesday before Parliament to explain how the country can eradicate swarms of locusts that have invaded several parts of the country. He said the only effective chemicals are manufactured in Japan and Australia.