 A church elder on Friday blamed infidelity for the strained relationship with his wife of 13 years. Nahashon Thuo, who has denied assaulting and causing bodily harm to his wife, told Makadara chief magistrate Heston Nyaga that on the day he allegedly beat the woman she had been dropped home at 1am by a man in a double-cabin pick-up. The magistrate had sought to know the nature of the injuries and the relationship between the two before setting either bond or bail terms for Thuo. A bitter exchange of words ensued after the magistrate called out the complainant to respond. “Your honour I found text messages on my son’s phone. My wife told him to tell me she had gone for some business with Jane, a sister in church if I ask of her whereabouts. She was dropped home at 1 am by a man in a double cabin pick-up,” he said. He claimed that his wife wants to deprive him of their matrimonial property. The wife blamed him for their differences, accusing him of an appetite for debts and an attempt to transfer wealth they have made together to himself. “My husband has accrued so many debts including one from my sister. I am the one supporting the family including paying school fees for our children,” she said. She said that her beauty had made Thuo insecure all their married life as he has been suspecting her of having affairs, frequently battering her and even kicking her and her son out of their home. The complainant said that in a previous fight Thuo had attempted to throw her from the balcony of the house but she did not take any legal action, fearing that their son, who was sitting a national exam, might be affected. She claimed that Thuo had locked up her personal belongings including national ID and that he has been using the documents and forging her signature to transfer their property to himself. The accused denied this, saying the property is their children’s. Thuo will remain in custody until today (February 10) when the court will give a ruling on bond/bail after going through a probation report. 