  A nominated Embu MCA was on Friday ordered out of the chamber for being skimpily dressed. Both male and female ward representatives complained that Judy Mbuya was sexually-provocative. Mbuya had arrived in the chamber in body-hugging trousers and a short unisex shirt. Her male colleagues felt that her body was exposed, making them uncomfortable. Nominated MCA Margaret Lorna Kariuki taunted temporary Speaker Phillip Nzangi to leave his seat and move where Mbuya was seated to confirm whether the trousers were tight-fitting and also determine whether the outfit was a pair of jeans. Kariuki, in an apparent defence of her colleague, also asked the speaker to ask the serjeant-at-arms to feel the material and determine whether the MCA was properly dressed. The matter was not made any better after deputy Speaker Steve Munene claimed that Kyeni North MCA Njeru Mukavi and Evurore’s Kinyua Mbui were uncomfortable as “things are not good” in reference to Mbuya’s outfit. Munene demanded that the "provocative" MCA be sent out of the chamber. Mukavi denied with a light touch that he was uncomfortable but soon after walked out of the chamber. Muminji MCA Newton Kariuki maintained that Mbuya was improperly dressed and that she was struggling to adjust her trousers. He insisted that she should be thrown out. Gaturi North rep Paul Muchangi demanded that all female MCAs be compelled to wear clothes which do not hug their bodies during house business. Nominated MCA Agnes Gakungugu argued that women have different physiques from men and clothes fit them differently. MCA Edna Muisyo, also nominated, said female MCAs were required to wear skirt suits, trouser suits or any decent dress while in the chamber. She observed that Mbuya was not officially dressed and that she was struggling to adjust the trousers to avoid exposing her body. Muisyo demanded that her colleague be thrown out of the chamber. Mbui called on the Speaker to make a ruling on whether Mbuya was officially dressed. The speaker ordered the nominated MCA to leave and wondered why issues of improper dressing only came up when he was in the chair. Nzangi said that MCAs should be supplied with hard copies of the Speaker’s Rules on the dress code for female MCAs.  