Kenya Sports Shooting Federation got lucky on Monday with an equipment donation from ISSF president Vladimir Lisin who envisions Kenya to become a hub in Africa. This project targets to pull shooters from neighbouring countries including but not limited to Rwanda, Tanzania, Uganda, South Sudan and Sudan and should be complete in one year according to KSSF president Shoaib Vayani. In the first lot of his donation, Lisin gifted Kenya three Shooters Training System Kits- SCATT MX-W2 that approximately cost 1,795 Euro each. This, The Star has learnt are his personal donations the International Sports Shooting Federation boss gave. Subsequent support would come in form of indoor range upgrade to Olympic standards that will cater for 10m air pistol, air rifle and three positions disciplines. After his tour of three shooting ranges in Nairobi and Kiambu counties- GSU Training School, Ruiru Sports Club and Sailing Club Lang'ata, ISSF president Vladimir Lisin was impressed with Kenya Sports Shooting Federation's facilities and activities. “What I've seen in Kenya today morning- shooting ranges is impressive. There are already ranges that may only need a bit of improvement and I've chosen Kenya to be a sports shooting hub in Africa. “And from my brief discussion with the cabinet secretary for sport- Amina Mohammed and Nock president Paul Tergat they have expressed 100 per cent support for sports Shooting,” intimated Lisin who was elected to office slightly over a year ago. The ISSF supremo pledged all kinds of assistance possible and discouraged laziness and wanting everything done for. In its strategic plan, KSSF are targeting to introduce the sport to school going children and groom them to be the future flag bearers in international events and especially the 2022 Youth Olympics, Paris 2024 and the 2028 Olympic Games. While presenting the blueprint, shooter Doreen Okiri intimated that Small-bore captain Gurupreet Dhanjal is leading in the coaching department. ISSF secretary general Alexander Ratner noted that Kenya has a good development blueprint and said: “You (Kenya) have a good development program but you need to put in work to achieve the goals we’ve seen in the presentation.” To this, Gran Calder, the former KSSF president assured Ratner that: “Productivity and achievement are what we are working on, and we will from time to time be seeking for your advice."