Ugandan security agencies at the disputed Migingo Island are holding 130 boats impounded from Kenyan fishermen. Sori Beach Management Unit chairman Maxwell Ogola said on Tuesday the boats were seized for allegedly trespassing on Ugandan waters. “Our colleagues said the boats have been impounded by Ugandan forces who have turned the island into their base for soliciting bribes,” he said. Ugandan officers have also confiscated catch, nets and engines and arrested several fishermen, Ogola said. He said fishermen have undergone untold suffering at the hands of the foreigners. “Last week a colleague who was arrested off Kibro beach by Tanzanian authorities was found murdered and body dumped around Migingo island,” Ogola said. Kibro Beach Management Unit chairman Joel Maulidi said Kenya has refused to invest in personnel and equipment for her officials. The two spoke in Migori during an event hosted by county government and the Kenya Coast Guard Services to ensure proper use of Lake Victoria. The meeting at Sori beach was meant to sensitise the fishermen on how to manage the activities in Lake Victoria. The Kenya Coast Guard Service was launched in 2018 to protect Kenya's territorial waters against terrorism, piracy, illegal fishing, human and drug trafficking. Fishermen and users of Lake Victoria have complained the Coast Guards only targeted the Indian Ocean and not other inland water bodies. Migori Agriculture county executive Valentine Ogongo said the partnership will ensure fishermen’s security is secured. “We want to stop pollution and illegal fishing in the lake. The safety of fishermen is important for the county government,” Ogongo said. Kenya Coast Guard Service commanding officer Jonathan Odera said they will work with different agencies to deliver services to fishermen and all lake users. “The service is like Huduma Centre with different authorities working to provide better services to Kenyans working on lakes and the Indian Ocean,” Odera said. Odera said they will enforce the law in the area to end illegal trafficking of goods and provide security against pirates. “We are here to deal with all kinds of illegal activities, the pirates and protect activities of our people,” Odera said.