A Kiambu lobby that collected signatures to impeach Ex-Governor Ferdinand Waititu has called on their new leader James Nyoro to name a fresh executive committee. Okoa Kiambu chairman Hoswell Kinuthia said some of Waititu's appointees could be loyal to the embattled ex-county chief. “We want to tell him that Waititu was removed from office due to corruption, but he did not do this alone. We know that there are people in the administration who ought also to be removed,” he said. The lobby group said that they will hold social accountability forums across the county to ensure there is public participation in all developments projects. Group official James Wanganga said that they will develop a citizens' charter to articulate how Kiambu people would want to be served. Wanganga spoke in Ruaka, Kiambaa constituency on Tuesday “We want to have forums across all the 12 constituencies of the county to ensure accountability, good governance and service delivery for all,” Wanganga. We are in support of Governor Nyoro’s government and we hope he will deliver for Kiambu people with our help as citizens, he said. Kinuthia said that the county had been engulfed in leadership struggles but it has to move forward after the change of leadership. Carol Wanjiku said that Nyoro should involve residents at the grassroots in the choice for the next deputy governor. “We do not have a problem on who should be Nyoro’s deputy. Whether a man or woman, we need someone who is bright, knowledgeable and competitive to propel the county in the right direction,” Wanjiku said. Group secretary general Makas Ngige said that they are confident that the county will move forward with a different cabinet. Ngige said all county executives should be investigated and their dockets audited to rid them of corruption. The group also called upon Waititu to let go of Kiambu and stay away as he had held the county hostage for over six months as he battled graft charges against him. The lobby asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to visit Kiambu, his home county, and bring projects to the area. Nyoro was sworn in as governor on January 31, after the Senate upheld Waititu's impeachment by the county assembly on three charges. The first charge was a gross violation of the Constitution, Public Finance Management Act and PPD Act. For this charge, 27 senators upheld the charge, while 12 voted in the governor's favour. In the second charge - crimes under the national law, 28 senators upheld the charge, while 11 voted to drop the charge. In the third charge - abuse of office - 28 voted to uphold the charge, while 11 voted to drop it. 