Health Cabinet Secretary nominee Mutahi Kagwe has challenged State officers to seek services in local hospitals. He said such a move would be a sure way for the facilities to provide quality services to Kenyans. The nominee also backed the idea of building a private wing at Kenyatta National Hospital. "There is no problem if those who can afford are treated there and the income spent to provide free medical care at the referral hospital," Kagwe said. The former Nyeri senator further stated that he would streamline the troubled NHIF should his nomination be approved. Kagwe spoke during his vetting on Thursday the Appointments Committee headed by National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi. Also in the Appointments Committee are Leader of Majority Aden Duale, his Minority counterpart John Mbadi, Majority Whip Ben Washiali, deputy whip Cecily Mbarire, and deputy majority leader Jimmy Angwenyi. Last month, President Uhuru Kenyatta reshuffled his cabinet while in Mombasa that saw him nominated Kagwe to head the Health docket that was previously held by Sicily Kariuki. Kariuki is now the Water, Sanitation and Irrigation CS. From 2002 – 2007, Kagwe served as the fifth MP for Mukurweini Constituency. As MP, he was the Chair of Parliamentary Committee on Finance, Trade, Tourism and Planning, before his appointment as a Cabinet Minister under former President Mwai Kibaki's Government. Kagwe later went on to become the first-ever Senator of Nyeri County. In the 11th parliament, he chaired the Senate Committee on Information and Technology and served on the Senate Committee of Finance and Budget; and the Liaison Committee. He also served as Chairman of the Senate Education Committee. As Cabinet Minister, he spearheaded the construction of the transformational East African Marine System – The first Fibre Optic Project for Eastern Africa. It was during his term as Cabinet Minister that Kenya launched ‘Mpesa,’ the world's first-ever money transfer system. As Senator, his credits include the championing of “The Best Classroom,” an Early Childhood Education program that aspires to promote the quality provision of ECDE nationwide. He also sponsored the Cyber Security and Protection Bill in the Senate. Kagwe was appointed by Energy CS Charles Keter last year to the Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Commission (EPRA).