The student rape victims have themselves to blame for recklessness, the acting director of Security at the Univerity of Nairobi has said. The memo by Major (Rtd) Simon K. Cherotich said that in the three rape cases reported, the victims were to blame. He said that one victim had visited various joints in the city before walking  to her hostel where she was attacked. The memo created an uproar. Vice Chancellor Kiama Gitahi apologised and said the memo was"insensitive" and does not represent the values of the institution. "This is, therefore, to assure all students of our commitment to protect and take care of them at all times." The VC urged students to always contact the Security and Safety Services office whenever they are facing security problems. Students said that security in and around the university has improved. Students said security at various hotspots such as the University Way footbridge and Globe roundabout had been improved. They said there are few security guards and sometimes they get overwhelmed by crowds. One of the students said laptops and valuables are sometimes stolen from hostels. “You find that a student who used to stay in that room the previous year duplicates the key before giving it back to the custodian on the clearing date. They thus come back later and easily open the room when the new occupant is not around,” the student said. The students have identified the tunnel that connects the main campus and the graduation square as another hotspot. The tunnel is near St Paul’s Chapel and University Way roundabout that has been listed in the memo as hotspots for robbery and rape. “There are street families that sleep there. They either vandalise the lights or switch them off so using that tunnel definitely becomes a risk," another student said. He added, "We have tried to follow up on the matter but we are told the county government and Kenha are supposed to address the issue because the tunnel cuts across a highway.” The memo advised students to avoid attending social functions without a clear agenda. Edited by R.Wamochie