The trade deal between Kenya and the United States is so far gaining ground with the current administration committed to the course. Kenya's President Uhuru Kenyatta is in the US where he has assured President Donald Trump and his administration in 'concluding the strongest ever trade and investment framework' between the two nations. “We are very keenly looking forward to concluding the trade arrangement between our two countries and I believe that these trade agreements would not only serve Kenya and United States but would probably set the base for a new engagement between the United States and other African countries,” Uhuru said on February 6, 2020. WHERE WE ARE So far, a two-way goods trade between the United States and Kenya stands at $1.1 billion (Sh110.5b) in 2019, up 4.9  per cent from 2018. In the same year, top US goods exports to Kenya was as follows: Aircraft $59 million ( Sh5.9b), plastics $58 million (Sh5.8b), machinery $41 million (Sh4.1b),  and cereals (wheat) $27 million(Sh2.7b). Top US imports from Kenya in 2019: apparel at $454 million(Sh45b), edible fruit and nuts (mostly nuts) at $55 million(Sh5.5b), titanium ores and concentrates at Sh5.2b ($52 million), and coffee Sh3.4b ($34 million). US foreign direct investment (stock) in Kenya stood at Sh40.6b ($405 million) in 2017. "A trade agreement between the United States and Kenya will complement Africa’s regional integration efforts, including the landmark African Continental Free Trade Area," the US said. In August 2019, the United States and African Union signed a joint statement concerning the development of the AfCFTA, which reflects our common goal to deepen trade and investment relationships across the continent. The United States pledges its continued support to help the AfCFTA achieve its fullest potential. In August 2018, President Donald J. Trump and President Uhuru Kenyatta established the US-Kenya Trade and Investment Working Group to explore ways to deepen the trade and investment ties between the two countries and lay the groundwork for a stronger future trade relationship. AGREEMENT BEING NEGOTIATED Under the Working Group, the United States and Kenya agreed to work together in the following areas: Pursue exploratory talks on a future bilateral trade and investment framework; Maximize the remaining years of the African Growth and Opportunity Act; Strengthen commercial cooperation; and Develop short-term solutions to reduce barriers to trade and investment. The inaugural meeting of the Trade and Investment Working Group was held in April 2019 in Washington and the second meeting was held in November 2019 in Nairobi. The third meeting was held this week in Washington before Uhuru and Trump met at the White House.