In nearly all his public appearances, Kenya’s second president the late Daniel arap Moi wore a fresh rose pinned on the lapel of his coat. The man who grew and cut those roses for 10 years is David Kalua from Ukambani. Kalua had studied beauty and landscaping and secured employment at Prisons Training College. The late president used to visit the college and due to his love for nature he noticed Kalua’s work as a gardener and liked it. When the gardener at State House retired, Moi called Kalua and offered him the job. He worked for over 10 years and says Moi was his close friend who loved him for his hard work. “When I started working as a gardener at State House, I found a lot of weeds and I worked hard, planted flowers and vegetables and slashed grass, something that impressed the late former president,” Kalua said. Moi found the flowers very attractive and ordered him to be ensure that each day there was a rose flower to match his suits. “I would pick one or two flowers very early in the morning each day which were used to match the suits of the late Mzee Moi,” Kalua said. Kalua is a bishop at St Stephen Ministry, a local church erected within his homestead in Unyaa, Kitui Central. He said the flowers he planted near the entrance to State House were always guarded. “The roses were treated differently from other flowers. There was always a guard providing security to the roses which I had planted almost at the entrance to State House,” the bishop recalled. As the years passed, Kalua also planted vegetables which were eaten at State House. “The former president loved fresh food and the vegetables I had planted were cooked at the State House,” Kalua said. The elderly man whose wife said could be in his late 80s said working hard drew him closer to the former president who would occasionally visit him at the farm to chew sugarcane. Kalua stated Moi was a strict disciplinarian who ensured everything worked according to his wish He described Kenya's second president as a God-loving man who never missed attending church. “At one point, the late Moi directed me to erect a chapel within the State House where he would conduct prayers,” Kalua said. “He loved everyone but had his children very close to him,” he said. Moi also loved education and attended many fundraisers in aid of schools. “It is my wife who broke the bad news to me which left me shaken not knowing what to do,” he said about learning of Moi's death on Tuesday.