They've been raped, battered and abused in many ways but they're afraid to leave their families because they cannot support themselves. If they are mothers, they would have children they can't support alone. If they are girls, they have nowhere to go, no way to support themselves. But a Women's Empowerment Center that opened in Kalobeyei, Turkana, will help give women the support, the dignity and the practical skills they need to become self-reliant. It can accommodate about 200 women and girls who come for counselling and skills training. It was commissioned on Wednesday by UN Women, with support of the Japanese government, Peace Winds Japan ad the Danish Refugee Council. The centre is implementing projects to address the needs of women and girls in crisis to promoting resilience, restore dignity and provide durable economic and social solutions in Kalobeyei settlement. The centre is a safe place for women and girls to meet, build networks, learn positive coping skills and establish peer support. They will also learn practical skills, such as tailoring. In that way, they will improve their skills and economic abilities so they can start businesses and become economically self-sufficient. Mio Nakano, programme analyst for UN Women, said the project is aimed at women's leadership and participation, conflict prevention, resolution and peacebuilding. "We will support more than 200 women and girls affected by sexual and Gender-Based Violence, she told the press while opening the centre. Many cases of violence have been reported. Turkana County Executive for Gender and Youth Affairs Jennipher Nawoi said the county lacks resources and needs the help of partners and donors. She said the county is are looking for other avenues to help women become self-reliant because some sexual abuse happens because women are not economically empowered. "Women tend to stay in abusive marriages because they have no choice but when they have resources in their hands, they can make decisions and are able to support their families with small businesses," she said. Jackline Achola, a south Sudanese living in Kalobeyei settlement, thanked the partners for opening the centre. "We live in Kalobeyi settlement in Turkana West because we suffered conflict in South Sudan and sought refuge in Kenya. Gender violence happens to us but we fear to report it," she said. "The centre will help us become stronger." She said will learn practical skills like tailoring so they can make their own money and won't have to depend on men. The Kalobeyei integrated settlement was opened in 2016 in Kakuma, Turkana county, to influence future humanitarian development programmes. (Edited by V. Graham)