Allies of Deputy President William Ruto have threatened to lead the 'NO' campaign if Kenyans go to a referendum to amend the Constitution. The legislators have pledged to campaign against any constitutional amendments if the final report of the Building Bridges Initiative does not address their concerns. They want a powerful president, not a weak one overshadowed by a powerful prime minister. Ruto wants to be a powerful president, yielding no ground. Legislators allied to President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga have indicated they would not be surprised if Ruto and his allies lead campaigns to defeat the proposals. Raila and his brigade have already said they prefer a strong prime minister — that was in the original report but it was watered down and the prime minister's power's reduced. Before the BBI report came out, President Kenyatta said he wouldn't mind being prime minister, he didn't say what kind but presumably doesn't want to hang up his boots. BBI joint secretary Paul Mwangi last month said a referendum is inevitable if proposals made so far are to be implemented. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen has promised to fight the Uhuru-Raila-led initiative if the final report does not reflect the wishes of Kenyans. The Senate Majority leader, a close ally of Ruto, said he will take action if the final report fails to address issues facing ordinary Kenyans. “If the final BBI report doesn’t capture the aspirations of the people of Kenya and a referendum to amend the Constitution is organised with a draft that limits the sovereign power of the people or creates tribal positions or undermines devolution, I will oppose it and will lead the NO Team,” he said in a tweet. The Ruto side has been sending mixed signals on their backing for the BBI. Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro, another close ally of the Deputy President, also pledged to oppose the final BBI report. “BBI is a wicked attempt by dynasties to amend the Constitution by limiting the sovereign power of the Kenyan people,” he said. Nyoro further claimed that BBI seeks to create positions for “Raila and two multi-billionaire families” and remove term limits for “stealing” Governors. Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua cautioned Kenyans against supporting BBI since it was doomed. “Will you board a bus that has no brakes and is being driven by a reggae person? Getting on the bus will be problems for us,” he stated during a church service at Soul Harvesters International in Dandora, Embakasi North, on Sunday. The Mathira MP added that they are not going to support a document Kenyans have not seen. “There is no BBI. We will not support what we do not know. Something that wants to create seats for some individuals. If it creates seats for governors, we will reject it in the morning,” he added. Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu said he expects the Deputy President and members of the Tangatanga team to drum up support for the proposed amendments. “It is actually okay for Ruto and his allies to say No. He did it first 10 years ago and though it did not stop us from passing the new Constitution, it provided a platform for a much more robust debate on what was then a proposed Constitution,” he said. Shinyalu MP Justus Kizito asked why the Tanga Tanga group is already declaring its opposition to final proposals yet the final report is not out. “What are they saying 'No' to?. There is something wrong with their heads because the BBI task force is still going round collecting views,” he said. He said, however,  members of the Tangatanga team have a democratic right to campaign against the proposals. “These are people who just want to be on the opposite side. It may be a personality issue and we have no problem with that because society will always have such people,” he added. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria warned that there were plans to amend the Constitution to deny all Kenyans the opportunity to elect the country’s leader. “The plan is to have MPs elect the country’s leader. You know, legislators can be bribed easily, with as little as Sh10,000 to choose a President for you,” he said. Ruto, speaking at the same event, said no one should force Kenyans to support what they want as individuals. “No one should tell Kenyans that it will happen and by when. Take that kind of language, of whether you like it or not, elsewhere,” he added. Ruto said Kenya is a democracy and all Kenyans should be given a chance to be heard. Wambugu accused Ruto and his team of being preoccupied with the 2022 elections, so much so “that they are unable to see beyond their own personal ambitions". Wambugu told the Tangatanga group that their inability to see the greater good proposed in the BBI will stop them from getting what they want in 2022. “Their pursuit for power is for their own selfish interests rather for the good of all Kenyans,” he added. (Edited by V. Graham)