The desire to win more trophies with Blazers and play for the national team were the reasons why prodigy Eleanor Chebet did not seek a move away from the club. Book makers had tipped the 19-year-old forward to leave the cash-strapped Blazers but Chebet said it was too early for a new challenge after only one season in the top flight league. The speedy forward was part of the Kenya team that featured in the Olympic qualifiers last year. Chebet was the runner up in the top scoring charts last season with seven goals. Her maiden fruitful campaign with the record 22-time Premier League champions saw her also crowned the Player of the Year in the Magharibi Michezo Gala in December. Despite the financial challenges bedevilling the club, the former Misikhu Girls’ player thinks Blazers have a point to prove this season. “I was not ready to quit and the club was unwilling to let me go, a win-win situation for both parties. I want to challenge for honours this season and Blazers are the team to make me achieve that,”  she added. “Last season was good and competitive. It was about adapting to the demands of the league. Inexperience was my major undoing but I still punched above my weight. Playing for the national team was a dream come true. I can cement my spot if I continue working hard, learning each day and improving.” The talented player wants to win the top scorer award this season. She said part of the motivation is playing with the best players at the club, who also turn up for the national team. Over the past decade, Blazers, formerly Telkom, produced three quarters of players to the national team. With the quality within the team a vital weapon, Chebet wants to double her goal tally. “My aim is to become the top scorer. Blazers are a strong side and with few additions, we will still be unstoppable. My target is 15 goals.” Blazers are using the Parklands’ tournament that started on Saturday as part of preparation and intense training is expected this week with the league three weeks away from kick off. Chebet, alongside Joan Anjao, are part of the long term project at the club.