Good evening, Parliament has extended the viewing of Mzee Moi's body for an hour. The viewing was to end at 5 pm on Monday but Parliament extended the timing to 6 pm. "The time of viewing the body by the public has been extended to 6 pm that is the reason why we have this sitting," Speaker Justin Muturi said on Monday during a special sitting in Parliament. ODM party leader Raila Odinga on Monday viewed the body of former president Daniel Arap Moi. Moi who died on February 4, 2020, has been lying-in-state in Parliament since Saturday. Raila said he knew about the passing on of Moi while he was in the United States.  On February 10, 1984, Kenyan security forces launched a massive operation that would lead to the death of hundreds in Wajir. Security forces had descended on the Somali dominated region to reportedly defuse inter-ethnic clashes and mop up illegal guns. After four days, hundreds of men lay naked and dead at the Wagalla Airstrip with their bodies ridden with bullets.  The Jubilee meeting scheduled for Friday has been postponed, secretary general Raphael Tuju has announced. "Under the prevailing circumstances, may I notify Jubilee members that the consultative meeting scheduled for Friday has been postponed to a later date to be announced," Tuju said. "As the nation continues to prepare to bid farewell to the departed 2nd president of the Republic of Kenya, the late H.E Daniel Toroitich arap Moi, our party also joins Kenyans in solidarity to pay our respects." The body of former President Daniel arap Moi donned a different suit each of the three days it lied-in-state at Parliament Buildings. On Monday, which was the last day of public viewing, Moi’s body was dressed in a navy grey suit, brown shoes, a white shirt and a mustard yellow checked tie. Moi’s baton, famously known as Fimbo ya Nyayo, was in his right hand, unlike the previous days when it was placed beside the body together with a bible. Sarah Wairimu Cohen, the widow to slain businessman Tob Cohen has accused her sister-in-law of filing in court a fake will. Through her lawyer Phillip Murgor, Wairimu claims they hired an expert document examiner who confirmed that the will was forged. "Through an expert document examiner in a forensic report has confirmed that the said will is a blatant forgery and obtained through fraud," her petition read.