On December 30, 2002, Daniel Moi shocked the mammoth crowd that had gathered at Uhuru Park for the inauguration ceremony of Mwai Kibaki as the country’s third president. Moi’s convoy snaked through the charged crowd at about 3pm, to the utter shock of everyone, including Kibaki and his Narc brigade. After ruling the country for 24 years, many thought Moi was a tyrant who could not hand over power to the opposition even after losing in a democratic election. But Moi arrived at Uhuru Park to hand over the instruments of power to Kibaki who had been elected two days earlier, on December 27. The retired president died at the Nairobi Hospital, aged 95, after a long illness. Kibaki defeated Uhuru Kenyatta, Moi’s preferred successor, whom he had deployed state machinery to campaign for. He endured embarrassing moments at the ground as the humongous expectant crowd chanted ‘Yote yawezekana bila Moi’ (all is possible without Moi). They shouted ‘mwizi’ (thief) and pelted him with mud as he made his way to the dais to greet and congratulate Kibaki, the president-elect. At the ceremony, Moi was not accorded an opportunity to bid farewell to the people he had ruled for 24 years. Kanu presidential candidate Uhuru conceded defeat and thanked Moi for his "unfailing support and his monumental role in his smooth and peaceful transition”. According to his press secretary Lee Njiru, Moi handed over power to avert a political crisis that was looming at the time. Moi took over power from the founding President Mzee Jomo Kenyatta in 1978. His reign was marked by hiccups with the opposition constantly assailing him for suppressing democracy. This led to an attempted coup in 1982 after a section of Air Force officers and some opposition leaders attempted to overthrow his government. He was accused of rigging himself in the subsequent elections and torturing those who were critical of his administration. But in his last Jamhuri Day address as president, Moi announced he was committed to handing over power to a successor. He went on to apologise to those he said he could have wronged during his tenure. “If there is anybody I have wronged, please forgive me, if there is someone who I have said something wrong about, please forgive me,” Moi said. He continued, “I said in 1998 that I will retire after the expiry of these five years, but many of you did not believe me because power, in the continent of Africa, nobody can leave power. Power is in the people. We are just their trustees. And that is why I want to tell people who want democracy we will leave politics peacefully.” Edited by R.Wamochie