Harambee Stars goalkeeper John Oyemba harbours no hard feelings after Kariobangi Sharks axed him on medical grounds, rendering him club-less for the remainder of the season. Oyemba, a member of the Stars squad that represented the country in last year's Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt, will be out of action for the rest of the season due to a back problem. The 27-year old played his last match for the former Shield Cup holders against KCB in November last year and has been mysteriously missing on match days with his place taken by national U-20 custodian Brian Bwire. Oyemba was a surprise casualty when Sharks unleashed a list of axed players on Saturday after the closure of the transfer window . However, Sharks' chairman Robert Maoga was quick to clarify that the shot stopper was released on mutual consent. Maoga said the two parties amicably agreed to cut ties to allow the player to seek medication to the recurring back spasms albeit at the club's costs. " We parted ways with the player on mutual consent. He had been struggling with back setbacks but we will continue paying the doctor to attend him until he is given a clean bill of health. At least, we are aware that he has other means of generating income and we wish him speedy recovery, " claimed Maoga Oyemba, who made his national team debut in August last year during the Chan qualifiers against Tanzania spent almost a year out in 2018, nursing a back problem and was unfortunate to suffer the same this season. Kenya were tossed out by the neighbours 4-1 on post match penalties after settling for a goalless draw in the regular time at the National Stadium, Dar-es-Salaam The Jamhuri High School alumnus said the decision by Sharks to release him means he will be  will be club-less for the rest of the season.  However, he said this will not deter him from working his way back to manning the goal. "I joined Sharks after school and they have been good to me. It's unfortunate I got injured and we agreed with the club to part ways. I am a still on rehab and I believe by the time the season is over, I will be fully fit again. I hope once I am back on my feet, I will get another club, " said the 2017 Sports Journalists Association of Kenya (SJAK) goalkeeper of the year.