Lawyer Nelson Havi has been elected LSK president. Havi won the hotly contested election with a landslide against three other candidates who contested for the presidency. Havi takes over from Allen Gichuhi after serving his term. After four months of the spirited campaign, Havi overcame competition from Harriette Chiggai, Maria Mbeneka and Charles Kanjama. Havi will serve a 3-year term, which begins in 2020 and ends in 2022. Under the current LSK law, the president only serves one term. At least 10,764 lawyers with valid practice certificates are said to have participated in the election. Out of the four candidates, Havi was the only contestant who was not in the LSK Council and was seen as fresh blood in the body. Under his campaign mantra 'a brave new bar, promising to restore LSK’s lost glory',  Havi said his agenda will be centered on monitoring legislation, defending the rule of law and Constitutionalism. Kanjama, who was perceived as the strong candidate against Havi conceded defeat and pledged to support Havi. " I congratulate my classmate Nelson Havi on running a bold and effective campaign that has captured the confidence of lawyers across the country. I congratulate him on a race well run and, as a democrat, am happy to accept the will of the voters," Kanjama said. He added, "On my part, I pledge to support Nelson Havi.  I wish him success wholeheartedly and urge all lawyers to do the same. We all need LSK to succeed". Elgeyo Marakwet senator Kipchumba Murkomen also congratulated Havi saying the entire country expects him to provide leadership at the society. "Congratulations Nelson Havi on your election as President of the LSK. The Nation, the bar and entire legal fraternity expect you to provide leadership on matters affecting legal practice, administration of justice and rule of law. Be a good example to all in words and deeds. Be brave. We shall support you," Murkomen said. Lawyer Ahmednasir Abdullahi in his tweet termed Havi’s victory as a “landslide”. Lawyer Donald Kipkorir, in his words, congratulated Havi on the overwhelming victory. “I am proud to have endorsed Havi from the beginning, publicly and privately,” Kipkorir said. Havi is the first lawyer to have benefited from LSK full sponsorship to Kenya School of Law. The presence of Chiggai and Mbeneka had given hope that the LSK could get its second woman president after 16 years. The last and the only woman to have led LSK was Raychelle Awuor Omamo, the current Foreign Affairs minister. She served as the council chairperson from 2001 to 2003.