Good evening, Former President Hosni Mubarak, who ruled Egypt for 30 years, died on Tuesday at the age of 91 after undergoing treatment in intensive care following surgery. The former air force officer will be buried in a military funeral but the timing was still unclear, a military source told Reuters. Here are the stories making headlines on the Star this evening. All is set for the Mt Kenya region Building Bridges Initiative rally after ODM leader Raila Odinga met the region's leaders. The governors drawn from counties in the region met with Raila at his office in Capitol Hill, Nairobi to brief him on the arrangements ahead of the February 29 rally. Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia said the rally will focus on the economic issues as well as political. Narok Senator Ledama Olekina's lawyer, George Wajackoyah is demanding the immediate release of his client citing malicious influence from adversaries. Wajackoyah said he is concerned why the detectives have already taken fingerprints and decided to prosecute Olekiama without a go-ahead from the Directorate of Public Prosecution. "He should be set to go home. If the offence is so much heinous, the constitution allows for bail. It seems as if we are drifting back to the previous regimes where people were incarcerated to settle scores," he said. Narok county Senator Ledama Olekina has accused Deputy President William Ruto of being behind his arrest early Tuesday. Addressing the media shortly after he was released outside the Kilimani Police Station, Olekina said Ruto has no authority whatsoever to order for his arrest. "This today was kicks of dying horse. This is a witchunt. The DP William Ruto is behind it. Enough is enough!" he said. The Elections Observation Group has raised concerns on the high number votes cast on elective posts during election day. The group led by the national coordinator Mulle Musau said there have been staggering elections in the country for a while and needs to be fixed. The ELOG officials spoke when they presented its proposals to the Building Bridges Initiative Steering Committee led by the Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday held a State banquet in honour of the visiting German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier. During the dinner, dignitaries who were present including The First Lady Margaret Kenyatta and DP William Ruto toasted to success. They were accompanied by other government officials. AU envoy Raila Odinga was also present.