The High Court has said Kandara MP Alice Wahome's case on withdrawal of her security will be heard on priority basis. Justice James Makau directed respondents Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai,  Interior CS Fred Matiang'i  and the Attorney General to file their responses ahead of the hearing on March 23. Wahome filed the case last week claiming the withdrawal of her security detail was part of a plot by the government to eliminate her. She argues that she is unable to discharge her constituency duties effectively since her security was withdrawn. Wahome's bodyguards were withdrawn on February 3. “My personal security detail has been withdrawn today. I have been receiving threatening phone messages and press conferences have been held to warn me of dire consequences. My life is in danger,” Wahome tweeted. In the suit,  the legislator says Mutyambai had on January 20 indicated that VIPs involved in or suspected to be involved in crime will not be provided with security until they are cleared by the courts. The statement was made through the director of corporate communications for the National Police Service. “The withdrawal of my security leaves me with one conclusion: That my life is in danger and the state is organizing to hurt, injure or eliminate me through security agencies or goons," she says through lawyer Stephen Gitonga. She says she is yet to be informed of the reasons for the withdrawal of her bodyguards. “In arriving at the decision, the IG totally disregarded the Constitution and laws of Kenya regarding the protection and security of Members of Parliament. The decision was made without any force of law, was unreasonable, whimsical and ought to be quashed,” Wahomed says. She argues that the decision is discriminatory as other MPs continue enjoying state security. “The effect of the said decision now threatens and exposes me to security risks as I have enjoyed security ever since being elected as a Member of Parliament in 2013. I am apprehensive that I might be attacked and harmed based on the nature of my duties as an MP for Kandara constituency.” According to the lawmaker, she has neither been charged nor informed of any investigations against her on suspicion of having committed any crimes.