Nyeri residents disrupted a Nema meeting on Thursday and charged at officials they accused of plotting to stop the Sh600 million Nyeri Town Transport Terminus. The rowdy crowd also charged towards former Nyeri Town MP Esther Murugi prompting the police, national government administrators and county officials to whisk them away. Murugi had to be escorted to her vehicle by police. The project, which is expected to take five years, was launched by Governor Mutahi Kahiga in June last year and is being funded by the World Bank through the Kenya Urban Support Programme. Trouble started when Nema's environmental impact assessment head Marrian Kioko said a report of the meeting’s proceeding would be prepared, signed and sent to the authority within 14 days. “The National Environment Management Authority will go through the report and several others before giving its verdict on the project and communicating the same to residents," she said. But the public demanded an indication of Nema's verdict and heckled officials who declined to give a hint. They accused Nema officials of being used by some people – including Murugi – whom they said are against the project. The meeting broke up after residents ignored pleas to close it with prayer and instead shouted and charged towards the officials. Kioko had said the authority was not opposed to the project but wanted to ensure the law was followed to prevent harm to future generations. Rware MCA Paul Kanyari said if Nema dared to stop the project, people would march to State House in Nairobi to seek President Uhuru Kenyatta’s intervention. Murugi said they have some requests to the county government before the project can be approved. “Even in the opening paragraph of our petition, we had indicated that we fully support the project. So there is nowhere in the letter that we indicated that we were opposed to it,” the former minister in retired President Mwai Kibaki's government said. She said the county government had not responded to their demands, which include setting up a gate between the terminus and residential quarters. She said the project will ease traffic congestion in town and create jobs for the youth. Lands CEC Kwai Wanjaria told Murugi the county government will meet all their demands after the construction of all the access roads to the terminus. Nyeri Hawkers’ chairman Maina Kamami called on the county government to adhere to Nema's requirements to allow the completion of the project. Edited by R.Wamochie