Garissa county government now risks having most of its property especially vehicles attached by an auctioneer in a bid to recover over Sh 221.3 million owed to an insurance firm. Following instructions from Kenyariri and company advocates, Takafur insurance company has moved in to attach eight vehicles belonging to Garissa county government including fire engines and other assets. To recover the money, the company has hired the services of Recovery Concept Auctioneers to execute the attachment of the said county government assets to ensure the recovery of their money. Earlier, the high court had ordered Garissa Governor Ali Korane and his administration to settle over Sh221.3 million debt to an insurance company. According to court papers, the company was awarded a contract tender no. CGG/T/001/2015-2016 that was renewed from time to time by the county government to provide insurance cover for county staff. It covered workmen injury benefits, group personal accident, employers' liability, vehicle insurance for all types of vehicles owned by the county and a medical cover for employers. The county government defaulted on payment of premiums. The company said it has been suffering losses. The outstanding vehicle insurance balance is Sh119,799,426 while workmen injury benefits and employer's liability add up to Sh77,991,818. The medical cover debt is Sh23,574,39. According to Takaful, the county has failed, neglected and refused to pay them in fragrant breach of the terms and conditions of the services rendered.  This is despite the company providing the much-needed services in different sectors as requested by the county government from time to time. "Despite the demand to pay the monies owing and notices to sue duly issued to the county government, they have refused, failed and neglected to heed to the call for the money owed," Takaful aid. The insurance company seeks to attach eight vehicles belonging to Garissa county government, including fire engines and other assets. It has also hired the services of Recovery Concept Auctioneers to execute the attachment of the assets to ensure recovery of their money.