The Kenya Open Golf Limited has tripled the prize purse to Sh3m for the last leg of the 2019/2020 Safari Golf Tour Series set for Karen Country Club between February 22 and 26. The increase in kitty will see the professional winner of the Karen event bank Sh450,000, up from Sh150,000. KOGL Tournament Director, Patrick Obath, said the increase will motivate the players as they battle for the final slots to next month’s Magical Kenya Open. “We expect the level of competition to go a notch higher with this increase in prize kitty. We look forward to a grand finish  at the Karen. Our desire is to see many low scores at this event as we head this year’s Magical Kenya Open,” said Obath. “This season, the Safari Tour has witnessed enhanced competition and performances, pointing to a gradual growth and development in the game and giving all of us great encouragement for local players’ prospects at the Kenya Open.” “Our hope is that the players will use the opportunity at Karen to prepare for the Kenya Open, which will be played at the same venue and on the same format.” Professional Golfers of Kenya Captain, C.J. Wangai, said: “Being the final tournament this season, the increase in prize money is a welcome move. Most professional golfers in Kenya have been looking forward to this since the prize money acts as a morale booster for the players. I also expect to see a bigger number of foreign professional players this Saturday.” The event will also see an increase in the points won, with the winner chalking up 75 points, up from the current tally of 50. With this, players in marginal positions not only stand to make good money but also improve their chances of playing at the Magical Kenya Open. The top eight Kenyan golfers from the 11-series Tour who will automatically qualify for the Magical Kenya Open. Four slots are up for grabs on the Road to Kenya Open with Dismas Indiza (395.1 points), Thika Golf Club’s Simon Ngige (381.9), Greg Snow (376.5) and Royal Nairobi’s Erick Ooko (317.3 points) already qualified. Two regional players, who have been playing at this season’s Safari Golf Tour, will also play at the Kenya Open. Robson Chinhoi from Zimbabwe and Andrew Odoh from Nigeria are on the driving seat.