The government cannot account for 4,811 candidates who sat for their KCPE last year. This number constitutes 0.2 per cent of the candidates. The Education Ministry yesterday announced it had achieved 99.8 per cent transition to secondary schools. The ministry kicked off a mop up exercise jointly with the Ministry of Interior to trace children who sat for the national exam last year but had not proceeded to secondary school. “Some of these candidates might have left the country, some could be deceased and so from our perspective we have achieved 100 per cent transition,” Education CS George Magoha said in Kibera yesterday. The CS added: “We have achieved 99.8 per cent, which in my capacity as a government officer is 100 per cent transition because the 0.2 per cent is not statistically significant.” The government conducted a data cleaning process which saw a number of candidates excluded from the selection process. Those affected included those who were found to be overage, inmates and refugees in camps. This left a total 1,075, 201 eligible for placement this year. Magoha said after the data cleaning, 1,058, 058 candidates were admitted directly to secondary schools, 5,019 are repeaters, 9,273 were over 18 years hence gained entry into TVET institutions while 487 accounted for those who were either pregnant or deceased. “By close of business on Monday (February 17), the ministry working jointly with TSC and the Ministry of Interior has been able to trace all the children who took part in the national examination.” A total of 1,083,000 candidates sat their KCPE. The CS noted that admission which took place between January 13 and 24 witnessed a 92 per cent transition rate. This prompted the government to work in conjunction with TSC and the Interior Ministry to launch a nationwide house to house campaign to trace all those who were yet to report to school. “The mop up campaign has led to a very encouraging 1,072, 180 candidates translating to 99.8 per cent. We are going to continue and if one pops out from anywhere chiefs are still vigilant. We shall ensure that they are taken to school,” Magoha said. The government has further announced it will use Sh8.2 billion to improve infrastructure in secondary schools to correspond with the large numbers due to the 100 per cent transition. Part of the funds was released by the National Treasury yesterday with the remaining funds expected to be released in the next two weeks. The government will also be relying on politicians who will be expected to allocate a reasonable amount of CDF towards improving infrastructure in schools within their areas. “Let me take this opportunity to warn that none of this Sh8.2 billion is available to be stolen,” Magoha said.