Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria wants an agency formed to protect farmers' returns. He proposed that it be named National Farmers’ Income Commission. Iria said the commission should be entrenched in the Constitution through the Building Bridges Initiative and be charged with ensuring farmers get the right incomes from their toil. He spoke on Thursday in General Matenjaguo Grounds, Kandara, where he met thousands of avocado farmers and launched an avocado farmers Sacco. The county chief wants the government to protect cash crops for different regions whose collapse would ruin lives. "In Central, crops such as coffee, tea and avocadoes that support most of the locals should be considered and protected in the Constitution," he said. Further, he wants minimum guaranteed returns set for each protected crop to shield farmers from fluctuating prices. "I propose the formation of the commission to handle these things." The governor suggested regulations to be included in the BBI report to control middlemen in the agriculture sector and address rampant corruption that leaves many farmers reeling from poverty despite their hard work. The Sacco will enable farmers to sell their fruits to the highest bidder through contract farming. Under the Sacco, each subcounty will have its own cooperative society. The county government will choose the best buyer, provide vehicles to collect fruits from farmers and deliver them to the buyer. "We want farmers to register in the subcounties so we know how many farmers are there in an area for easy coordination," he said. The County Avocado Production and Marketing Bill has been tabled in the county assembly and will help regulate the sector once it is passed. It will allow the county government to establish avocado collection centres and control harvesting periods to curb immature harvesting. The county government will further establish an enforcement team that will be dispatched to the villages to ensure the law is not breached. The team will tackle the rampant avocado theft that is fuelled by brokers. "The co-operative will be announcing when a particular subcounty will harvest their fruits and vehicles dispatched," Iria said, warning that anyone found transporting the fruits will have to produce a permit. The governor said farmers in the county earned about Sh7 billion from avocadoes last year and that with the new structures, the amount could rise to Sh15 billion this year. He said more than 200,000 homes have avocado trees, far exceeding coffee as a cash crop. The county has issued 1.5 million avocado seedlings, which are expected to start bearing fruits in two-and-a-half years. "A mature Hass avocado tree can produce 5,000 fruits every year if well-tended. A farmer can plant 150 trees in an acre. With this and milk, no farmer should be unable to educate their children," he said. Iria encouraged farmers from Lower Murang’a, which is largely semi-arid, to take advantage of government-funded irrigation projects to plant the crop and become food-secure. "In April, we will camp in Ithanga and Makuyu and issue them with seedlings because many residents have kept off the programme."