The Kenya Open Golf Limited (KOGL) has increased minimum prize purse for individual events of the Safar Golf Tour Series from Sh1 million to Sh1.5 million starting next season. KOGL tournament director, Patrick Obath, said they are also working to ensure at least half of the tournaments offer total prize money of between Sh3 and Sh4 million as the event continues to grow in stature. While making the announcement, Obath said the move would enhance competition as more regional players are bound to take keen interest in the series. “For next year, we are upping the prize money from Sh1 million toSh1.5 million as a base and any event that wants to be part of the Tour must have a minimum prize kitty of Sh1.5m. “We want to ensure 50 per cent of the events pay a prize purse of between Sh3 and Sh4m. This will begin to attract players from other tours both in Africa and beyond and will also heighten competition further,” he added. KOGL is also ramping up the number of events for next season’s Safari Tour to give players more. “As we prepare the calendar next year, several things are going to happen. “One, we will increase the events from 11 to 15-16 during the course of the year. We will also expand to Rwanda and Tanzania. “We are then going to share our calendar with Nigeria and the Sunshine Tour so that we don’t have major events clashing and ensure that each event has a clear weekend so that we can attract the right kind of people,” said Obath. The Safari Golf Tour, which was launched in 2018 as a preparation pad for local and regional professional players heading into the Kenya Open Golf Championship, has seen 18 professional events being held in Kenya and Uganda over the two seasons. As part of the expansion plans, KOGL sees the tour growing to become the region’s biggest golf opportunity. “We also hope to attract payers from Ethiopia, the Indian Ocean Islands and DRC among others. We see the Safari Golf Tour placing itself as a premier event for the middle belt in Africa,” he added. Commenting on the success of the current season, Obath singled-out the tournament’s expansion into the region as the greatest accomplishment yet for the event; adding that the interest from Uganda, especially, pointed to the importance of the event to regional professional golf. “I think the biggest thing for us was that we expanded into Uganda, bringing to 11 events the number of events in the Safari Tour up from seven in the previous season.” He added: “Initially when we went into Uganda, we only thought that it was going to be one event but when they saw the opportunity, they decided to add more— which was a quiet way of saying that they needed more events in Uganda to ensure their golfers can get more points to qualify into the Kenya Open.” He said the fact that corporate organisations such as Johnnie Walker and Absa have taken the decision to sponsor individual golfers confirms that, increasingly, the tournament is profiling the players as a premium asset.  “We are now having players who are sponsored by commercial organisations. In the first season, we didn’t have that but this year, we are finding players who are being branded by their corporates and I believe that was a very positive thing for the Safari Tour because it was also supposed to be enhancing the earnings of the players.”