More than 108,000 children in Kenya die annually before their fifth birthday and 40 per cent die within the first month of life, Health ministry statistics show. According to the report, asphyxia or lack of oxygen during birth is the leading cause of mortality at 14 per cent, preterm births contribute 12 per cent of the deaths while pneumonia is 11 per cent. The figures were released at the ongoing 2nd Annual Conference on the Partnership on Strengthening Maternal, Neonatal, Child Health and Nutrition at Safari Park. It is themed 'Share, Learn and Sustain'. Asphyxia is caused by lack of oxygen and excess of carbon dioxide in the blood, produced by interference with respiration or insufficient oxygen in the air. Diarrhoea and sepsis contribute seven per cent each while injuries, congenital conditions and HIV-Aid contribute six per cent each and while malaria causes about five per cent of deaths. “We have a good environment in this country. The policy and political commitment are there. It is up to the people in charge to make sure these services the statistics. Mohammed heads the ministry's department family planning. The medic attributed the high numbers of deaths to poor quality services in healthcare facilities. The report also estimates 6,000 Kenyan women die every year due to pregnancy-related causes, the figures show. Haemorrhage is the leading contributing cause at 44 per cent, obstructed labour represents 34 per cent, eclampsia (seizures resulting from high blood pressure) 13 per cent, sepsis six per cent and ruptured uterus at three per cent. “Kenya has signed many commitments globally and regionally and invested heavily to promote access to quality reproductive health services for men, women and young people,” Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi said when opening the conference. Despite the challenges, the country has made significant progress in improving reproductive, maternal, newborn, child and adolescent health. For instance,  antenatal coverage has increased from 92 per cent to 96 per cent and the 4th ANC visit is 58 per cent. The introduction of free maternity services, successful delivery under skilled care has improved from 44 per cent to 62 per cent. More than a million women deliver in health facilities annually. Over the last decade, maternal mortality has declinedfrom 488 to 362 per 100,000 live births. “The total fertility rate has declined to less than four as more women use voluntary family planning, with contraception prevalence estimated at 61 per cent among married women,” the CAS said. Despite the gains, much more needs to be done. (Edited by V. Graham)