Businessman-cum politician Lawrence Nginyo Kariuki never gave handouts during campaigns. This perhaps explains why Nginyo, who died on Monday morning at the Aga Khan University Hospital, never got elected since joining politics in 1979. Born in 1938 at Githima in Ndumberi, Kiambu, the businessman remained at the forefront in the war on corruption. To him, corruption had impoverished Kenya and was the reason for unemployment. Nginyo tried many times to unseat Njenga Karume as the MP for Kiambaa. He always came second after the late Defence minister. He joined Nairobi politics in 2002. His efforts to represent Makadara in Parliament failed both in 2002 and 2007. He returned to Kiambu in 2017 and vied for the senate seat but he was no match for Kimani Wamatangi. Nginyo was a founder member of the National Alliance Party of Kenya (NAPK) in 2000.  He was the chairman. The outfit transformed itself to The National Alliance party (TNA). TNA was the party Uhuru Kenyatta used as a coalition partner of William Ruto's  United Republican Party to win the presidency in 2013. Nginyo never wasted the opportunity to remind Kenyans not to be swayed by handouts and instead elect leaders of integrity. According to the politician, the youth needed empowerment, not handouts. In 2012, he spearheaded a youth forum dubbed ‘Mapeso’ targeting to economically empower university students for leadership. “Why should the youths be given money to vote for someone? All the youth need is someone to empower them economically. This can be through technical institutions, SMEs and nurturing their talent,” Nginyo told the Star in 2017. He was a fervent supporter of the March 9, 2018, handshake between President Kenyatta and opposition chief Raila Odinga. He was critical of Jubilee factions Kieleweke and Tangatanga, saying they would split the party and lead to its destruction. Nginyo told the BBI task force in his Tigoni home last August that the Executive should be expanded to include a prime minister with two deputies for inclusivity and harmony. To him, the current set-up of President and the Deputy President is a two-man show that often creates disharmony. "For the sake of unity and cohesion, it is imperative that we expand the Executive since the current structure has remained contentious and has largely contributed to the polarisation of the country," he said. Nginyo worked his way to success. He will be remembered for his community service, advice, selflessness, and quest for a better future for the youth. Business The man who never became MP started his business career by selling cow dung to farmers. He thereafter distributed Madhvani brand sweets. He later ventured into wine and spirits distributorship. Nginyo was into real estate business. He was a renowned tea and coffee farmer. His interest in sports revolved around golf, rising from a caddie to a prominent golfer. He founded the Ndumberi Golf Club to encourage Africans to play the game hitherto a preserve of the white man. 