The Budget Policy Statement which was published last Friday is the document that sets the sector expenditure ceilings and also projects revenues. The reality is that our economy is not performing as expected because many indicators have shown that. If you look at the revenues generated by our two main sources of tax revenue, that is income tax and VAT, both have basically been declining. So for instance, income tax, a proportion of total tax, has declined from 45 per cent to the projection of 40 per cent. That tells you that we are basically at 40 per cent. VAT has also reduced from 26 per cent to, currently, 23 per cent. The reason why these two taxes are important to note is that income tax is a factor of how many corporations are actually making an income because basically they declare their tax based on the income they are making. It is also an indication of how many people are, employed, and or are running businesses, are able to pay tax. Thirdly, when you look at the indicators on excise and import duties, they are also expected to, basically, dim in the coming years. When you look at debt servicing, the proportion of debt servicing to our total income is quite high. For instance, the same document, BPS, shows that as at December 31, 2019, out of the collection of about Sh800 million in tax revenues, we spent about Sh491 million on what we call non-discretionary expenditures. Of which about Sh400 million was repayment of public debt. So basically, our revenue growth versus the amount we are spending in repaying the debt are not very good signs. A lot of our economy is hinged on agriculture production. The change in rainfall patterns that happened in 2019 and the locust invasion is very alarming. Therefore, the allocation to strategic grain reserve, indicate that we will require some grain (import) to be able to cover the shortfall. In a way, I would agree with the Parliamentary Budget Office that yes, our economy is not showing very good signs because, instead of reducing the budget deficit, we have been increasing it. Between February and December last year, the deficit increased from Sh630 billion to Sh789 billion. That is a huge increase yet the language of the government has been austerity measures. The International Budget Partnership -Country Manager for Kenya - spoke to the Star on phone