Nyeri Assembly Speaker John Kaguchia has directed the clerk to advise the Executive to employ a liaison officer to sit throughout sitting in the assembly. The move follows angry reactions by MCAs who accused the Executive of not implementing motions passed by the assembly. A rift has emerged between the assembly and Governor Mutahi Kahiga's administration because assembly motions have not been carried out. The speaker said the liaison person should sit in the public gallery throughout assembly debate, collect all necessary information and relay it to the Executive. “This will ensure that the business of the assembly finds its way to the table of the Executive Committee meetings on Monday morning so it can be deliberated upon,” Kaguchia said. He said this will ensure Kahiga takes personal responsibility for all the unimplemented deliberations and actions from the assembly. Kaguchia said though the assembly has passed well over 120 motions, the Executive has ignored them. "I urge the House leadership to consider looking at the implementation committee so this particular committee can help us ensure these motions are all followed-up in all the departments required to do so," he said. Kaguchia directed that before the implementation committee reorganises itself, the assembly clerk should distribute all the motions to all the sectoral committees. They will then summon county departments to advise committees what actions have been taken. “It is not to work in vain that we come here the whole afternoon and debate motions and then the executive does not look at those motions,” he said on Tuesday to the applauding assembly. The electorate, he added, will judge the assembly by the number of bills, motions, regulations, petitions and statements considered and deliberated upon by the house and the positive impact of the legislation on the society. He said the executive should take urgent steps to address that gap saying the assembly means business going forward. “Let us ensure this Fourth session is not business as usual. Let us take the Executive to task to fulfil election promises and implement approved and funded projects," he said. MCAs were in particular angry that Governor Mutahi Kahiga’s administration has not implemented the Sh30 million Ward Development Fund passed by the assembly and factored into the 2019-20 budget. Each of the 30 wards was supposed to get Sh30 million and members claimed the government used the Sh900 million to pay pending bills behind the assembly’s back. (Edited by V. Graham)