They were your typically civilised matatu crews just defending their turf against 'intruders' on Monday in Naivasha and a chance to make a pittance. For more than two hours at midday, about youths pushed, pulled, ripped clothes, threw punches and called each other names, most of which cannot be printed in a family newspaper. The nicest one was "dog". Anyhow, the police intervened and closed the main Naivasha bus terminus before there was serious bloodshed. Tens of passengers heading to Nairobi and Kingangop had fled and sought alternative transport. Hawkers ran away. No one was arrested or hospitalised. Order was restored. The origin of the set-to: Matatu operators from NNUS and KASESE groups were angered after the Nakuru county government licensed 2NK operators to offer services at the terminus, heretofore 'their' turf. The upshot: Nothing changed. Chairman of the Naivasha PSV Owners Association (Napoa) Stephen Mungai said the terminus was already very congested. He accused the county government of failing to involve the operators while bringing in a new operator and said they "would not allow it". Mungai, who is also the chairman of Kasese, blamed office of the sub-county administrator for issuing the license. “We do not have any problem with competition but let’s first address the current issues we have around the town where matatu termini are being opened along major roads,” he said. However, officials of 2NK operators led by their chairman Godfrey Wairia defended their operations, saying that they had followed all the procedures. Wairia said that they applied for a license from the county government and upon paying the required fees, their application was approved. “Our competitors are afraid of us due to the quality services we offer and it’s up to them to up their game or pull out of this route,” he said. Leading trader Mwangi Wa Muraya backed the new group, saying consumers were the major beneficiaries of competition. He said already tens of area youths had benefitted from job opportunities since the new matatu sacco came to town. “Some traders in Naivasha should wake up to the reality that monopoly is long gone and the only option is offering quality services at affordable prices,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)