On Saturday morning, the body of retired President Daniel Arap Moi will be prepared for transportation to Parliament Buildings. Before this, the casket carrying the body will be draped with the Kenyan flag by the Kenya Defence Forces. This practice is used by the military to affirm that the deceased is mourned by the nation and appreciated by the state. The soldiers will be responsible for the body throughout its trip that starts at the Lee Funeral Parlor on Argwings Khodhek Rd. KDF soldiers will also be lined up along the entire route to Parliament Buildings where the body is to lie in state for three days. It is expected that the casket will be wheeled by a carriage as happened with founding President Mzee Jomo Kenyatta in 1978. From Lee Funeral Parlor, the procession will go up on Argwings Khodhek Rd before joining Valley Rd next to the KDF headquarters. Here, the soldiers will stop for a moment for their colleagues inside the KDF premises to salute their honours. The slow procession will continue down Valley Road before joining Kenyatta Avenue at Integrity Centre. From Kenyatta Avenue, the convoy will join Uhuru Highway at the GPO roundabout before moving into City Hall Way at Intercontinental Hotel. At the roundabout, the convoy will join Parliament Rd before getting into the Parliament Buildings. President Uhuru Kenyatta and First Lady Margaret will be the first to view the body at 1o.15 am. Other dignitaries led by Deputy President William Ruto will have an hour to view the body before members of the public are allowed in. There will be protocol officers present to guide the public with Comesa Grounds at KICC designated as the holding area. Mzee Moi's body which will be surrounded by KDF officers will be viewed from 8am to 5pm on Saturday, Sunday and Monday. Moi was Kenya's second president staying in office for 24 years after taking over from Mzee Jomo Kenyatta in 1978. Kenyatta, who died while in office on August 22, 1978, was laid to rest in a mausoleum which is under 24-hour military guard. Jomo was accorded the first state funeral on August 31, 1978. His body lay in state for 10 days, with the national mourning period lasting 30 days.