Festus Onyango and Clayson Luvanda claim their move to Kenya Hockey Union Premier League champions Butali Sugar is due to the hunger for a new challenge and desire to win trophies. Onyango brings a wealth of experience after being a mainstay in Meshack Senge-tutored Gladiators. He was part of the 2016 title-winning team and he reunites with his former captain, Francis Kariuki, who the sugar millers signed at the beginning of last season. Onyango was second in the Premier League player of the year during Saturday's HockeyKE Awards at Hill Crest International School, Karen. Wazalendo's Sutcliffe Usagi was the winner with Chris Wokila of Greensharks coming third. The 23-year old, who was runner up in the top-scoring charts last season with 12 goals said he virtually won everything with the students and it was time to face a different test. "I have had a fruitful period playing for Strathmore since 2015. I have won Kenya University Sports Association trophy, the Premier League title and was the 2017 top-scorer with 20 goals. I have been voted twice as the most valuable player in the institution's awards gala," hinted Onyango who helped the students evade relegation. "I played for the jersey and gave everything on the field. Butali was the perfect choice for me so to speak. The competition in the forward line is fierce and I endeavor to work hard in training to get a starting role in the team. My appetite for more success is as strong as ever and I look forward to a successful new season," remarked the Kenyan international, who scored four goals in the African Olympic qualifiers in South Africa last year as Kenya missed out on the continent's sole slot. Luvanda, who turned up for Greensharks last season, said he wants to get out of his comfort zone. "To be honest, my change of clubs was necessitated by the urge to compete with the best. At Greensharks, I would always play even without training, a totally different scenario at Butali. I also need to exploit my full potential, therefore, the need to compete with star players," said Luvanda, who doubles up as a coach for the University of Nairobi women's Super League side. The duo joins a  worrisome attack that already comprises of 2018 top scorer George Mutira and former Police duo of Calvins Kanu and Amos Barkibir. The latter was Butali's top scorer with 11 strikes.