Schools in parts of northern Kenya are staring at a major crisis after the Teachers Service Commission withdrew non-local teachers, who complained they were constant threatened by militants and their colleagues murdered. Northern Kenya leaders on Sunday said no learning was taking place in many schools in the region, blaming the TSC for withdrawing its service. The TSC in February transferred more than 3,000 non-local teachers from Wajir, Mandera and Garissa counties. Majority of those moved were of Christian faith and had vowed to quit teaching altogether if the TSC did not transfer them. The non-local teachers were constantly targeted by Al Shaabab thugs, allegedly with covert support of some local elders. The most recent attack happened on January 13 this year when militants attacked Kamuthe Resource Centre and killed three male teachers. In 2014, 28 non-local teachers travelling to Nairobi for the Christmas holidays were killed by the militants near Mandera. Yesterday, disgruntled politicians from northeastern accused the TSC for playing into Al Shaabab's gameplan by withdrawing teachers from the region. However, the teachers had indicated they would not return there this year, even if the TSC refused to transfer them. "By withdrawing teachers from Northern Kenya it shows we have given into the terrorist demands," Haji said. The leaders were addressing a meeting to celebrate the appointment of former Marsabit Governor Ukur Yatani as Treasury CS. The luncheon brought together CSs Fred Matiang'i, James Macharia, Fridah Karoney, Najib Balala, Margret Kobia, Sicily Kariuki, Eugene Wamalwa, Simon Chelugui and the host Ukur Yatani. Other leaders were Mandera Governer Ali Roba, Wajir Senator Yusuf Haji, Garissa women representative Fatuma Gedi, Governer Ali Korane of Garissa, his Marsabit counterpart Mohammed Mohammud and Mohammed Kuti of Isiolo. "Insecurity is not just a teachers issue, there are over 30,000 non-locals living in Garissa. TSC has turned itself into law... we are being marginalised by TSC and if the crisis is not addressed we will ask the governors to take the law into their own hands and employ teachers," said Mandera Senator Mohamed Mohamud. Three counties of Mandera, Wajir and Garissa have been on the receiving end with students, teachers abandoning schools for fear of violence from the al-Shabaab militants. Wajir Senator Haji protested the transfers as discrimination. Haji said: "Since the attack and withdrawal of teachers, subsequent attacks have targeted locals. Recently, an 80-year-old man was killed because his son had joined the Kenya Police Reservists," he said. They leaders thanked the President for the elevation of Yatani to head the Treasury. Yatani previously served the Labour ministry in the same capacity before his appointment to the Treasury in January.