President Uhuru has eulogised the late, retired President Daniel Moi as a an astute politician, Pan Africanist, statesman and giant who understood Kenya was bigger than any individual. He recalled how he was on transit when he learnt of Mzee Moi's death. "It became my sad duty to announce the passing of Mzee Moi," Uhuru said. He was travelling to the US for bilateral trade talks. He said Kenya is building on Moi's philosophy of love, peace and unity in the Building Bridges Initiative. "We hope he is looking down with affirmation and pride," Uhuru said. "A prayer for peace and comfort for his family, our nation and this continent. He was truly a legendary son of Kenya and Africa." Uhuru said the long queues of Kenyans going to pay their last respects to Mzee Moi as his body lay in state at Parliament Buildings was proof of the democratic nature of Kenya's nationhood, which must be told. Uhuru said he chooses not to mourn, but celebrate Moi as a statesman and giant. "President Moi's life was a full life, chronicled as 96 years, made him one of the few people whose life closely mirrors all the stages of our nation," he said. Uhuru said Moi brought calm and confidence following the death of the first President of Kenya, Jomo. "Mzee Moi adopted a governance style and mantra which perfectly matched with the needs of his fellow citizens," he said. "When Kenyans spoke, he chose to listen.... He did the unthinkable. He voluntarily handed over the reins of power." "Kenya is better for having President Daniel Toroitich Moi as her servant, leader and role model." Uhuru was speaking about the time Moi handed over power to former President Mwai Kibaki in 2002. Uhuru applauded Moi's efforts to improve the education sector as well as the Nyayo free milk programme. He also spoke of Moi's active promotion of the place of women in society. Uhuru said Moi's efforts to promote environmental conservation were second to none. He recounted how Moi burned ivory worth millions of dollars to show his dedication to conservation. Uhuru also recognised Moi's fearless pursuit of terrorists. "He drove to the scene of the attack in 1998," he said. "We have far more in common than we do in differences. It is this that made Moi to team up with other Presidents such as Benjamin Mkapa to spearhead the revival of the EAC," Uhuru said. Uhuru ended by saying, "May God bless Kenya and Africa."