Kapsabet in Nandi County will host the 2020 Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association (KSSSA) games from April 14 to 17. However, KSSSA secretary-general, David Ngugi, said the event will this time round operate under the banner National Secondary Schools Under-20 Term One games, in a bid to keep away over age students. This is the first time the games will be held in Nandi, a county reputed as the source of champions. Ngugi, who led a high-powered team on a  pre-inspection tour was accompanied by the executive officer in charge of school games in education ministry Festus Muturi,  Kipchumba Maiy0, KSSSA's vice chairman who also chairs Rift Valley region and treasurer Kariuki Gikonyo. He said they are satisfied with the available venues and the hostels available ahead of the games. All the eight regions will send competitors to participate in track and field and ball games with the opening ceremony scheduled to take place at Kapsabet Boys ground on April 14th. The refurbished Kipchoge Keino Stadium, which has remained closed since 2014  in an ambitious plan by the county to modernise it into an international field, will for the first time host Rugby 7s. The newly constructed Eliud Kipchoge training complex will host various athletics disciplines while Kapsabet showground will take care of cross-country, handball and rugby 15. The University of Eastern Africa-Baraton, which has a number of playing grounds, will host basketball and hockey. The team expressed satisfaction with accommodation facilities, revealing that male students will be accommodated at Kapsabet Boys modern hostels while the female counterparts will reside at Kapsabet Girls. Ngugi said competitors will strictly be vetted to ensure only those under 20 years take part. “We have already dispatched a memo to all secondary schools to adhere to the rules on age matters. We will not allow cheating and we will supervise this exercise like the way national examinations are done,” Ngugi warned. KSSSA appealed to the Nandi County's department of sports to speed up final touches on Eliud Kipchoge Training Complex to ensure athletics competitions are a  success.