Deputy President William Ruto yesterday criticised former Prime Minister Raila Odinga, warning him against using the Building Bridges Initiative to impose his will on Kenyans. Ruto termed as 'irresponsible” attempts by some proponents of the BBI to bypass the views of ordinary Kenyans in the ongoing debate. Ruto said that all Kenyans, irrespective of their social or political affiliations, must get an opportunity to have their views captured in the BBI report without intimidation. “Kenya belongs to all of us and no one should force Kenyans to accept that things must go their way,” Ruto said at Soul Harvesters International Church in Dandora, Nairobi County. The DP's remarks appeared to be directed at Raila, who on Saturday called for a national referendum to approve the BBI proposals, saying Kenyans were ready. Raila had said that a referendum would be inevitable whether some "people who like opposing everything like it or not." Ruto warned that the BBI process had been hijacked by people hellbent on pushing their ideas “whether other Kenyans like it or not.” The DP emphasised that the Jubilee administration was focused on implementing its manifesto and would not be distrusted by BBI talks. “We must deliver on our mandate as Government even as we engage in this robust discussion about uniting our country,” he said. Ironically, Ruto's boss President Uhuru Kenyatta has rooted for the BBI process and often lashed out at the DP's allies for criticising the initiative. The DP spoke as the BBI heat appeared to gain momentum after a seven-day lull following the death of retired President Daniel Moi. The BBI rallies head to Narok on February 22 before landing in Meru on February 28. Raila will today hold a consultative meeting with select leaders from the Maasai community ahead of the BBI rally in Narok on Saturday. The meeting that will be held at the former prime minister's Capitol Hill office will be attended by governors Samwel Tuai (Narok), Joseph Ole Lenku (Kajiado) and Samburu's Moses Lenolkulal. On Friday, the three governors held a meeting in Nairobi together with elected leaders from the Maa community to strategise for the Narok rally and are expected to brief Raila on the plans. “We have agreed as a community that we will not be left behind in this noble process to unite Kenyans and address exclusivity,” said Tunai. Raila has already warned Kenyans to be ready for an inevitable referendum after  the BBI steering committee concludes its process to validate proposals from Kenyans. "The hour of change has come and those who think otherwise should not confuse electorates but to wait and meet us head on during referendum," said Raila on Saturday during a burial in Ugenya. The DP's allies have, however, claimed that the BBI proponents are taking Kenyans for a ride by advocating for the BBI yet Kenyans have allegedly not read the report. Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua said yesterday in Dandora that Kenyans must not hurriedly adopt the BBI report yet they have purportedly not been made aware of its contents. “Kenyans will not support blindly a document whose contents are strange to them. How would we support something we have not read?” Asked Gachagua, who accompanied Ruto. On his part, Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria warned there were plans to amend the constitution to deny Kenyans the opportunity to elect the country's leaders directly. "The plan is for MPs to be bribed in Parliament to choose a President for you,” Kuria said, dismissing the Parliamentary system of government being pushed by Raila's camp. Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro warned that there was a group of politicians that had hijacked BBI and were using it to divide the country. “We can see that there are those who are using BBI to divide Kenyans. We tell them Kenyans are not stupid,” said Nyoro. Kandara MP Alice Wahome asked politicians to be honest in the ongoing BBI discussion and exercise what they are advocating for. "We cannot build bridges by preaching division, disunity, hate and conflict,” she said. Other politicians who accompanied Ruto included MPs James Gakuya (Embakasi North), Benjamin Mwangi (Embakasi Central), Beatrice Nkatha (Tharaka Nithi), Gitonga Muragara (Tharaka), Josphat Kabeabea (Tigania East) and Kimani Ichungwa (Kikuyu).