Outrage greeted Education CS George Mahoga’s remarks that the Kakamega Primary School pupils should proceed with studies despite losing their 14 colleagues in a stampede on Monday. And true to his word, visibly shaken pupils braved the morning chill to get to school and patiently waited for his address. The CS’s remarks had already ignited a fierce debate that they were a mockery of the death of the angels. The CS later beat a hasty retreat and said the government would make a decision. But the unfortunate remarks had already sunk on the minds of grieving families. That is the Kenyan government for you and how top officials react to tragedies. Are some State House officials sleeping on the job? Well, hours after the death of more than a dozen pupils of Kakamega Primary School on Monday, State House was yet to send out a condolence message to the grieving families. While the country and the world reacted with shock, the President’s handlers delayed sending out the condolence note until Tuesday morning when they tweeted. It was just a tweet, not a full length statement condoling with the families. Definitely, someone could have dozed off while on duty. Is the government aware that a primary school within Kasarani area is offering tuition  on Saturdays against the regulations? The school’s administration has come up with all manner of ways to evade the long arm of the law. The head teacher of the school along the Kasarani-Mwiki road has constructed an informal gate at the back through which pupils sneak in and out.   The school allows pupils to come without uniform. The children are exposed to risks when they are not in uniform. For instance, a pupil was lured by a boda boda operator to his house at Stima area and defiled last Saturday. However, authorities in connivance with parents have decided to sweep the matter under the carpet. Could Education officials move and avert more damage? Was a Nairobi politician playing politics with residents of a popular estate? Weeks after he announced the construction of a key road and the contractor moved to the site, nothing is happening. The contractor has moved out and residents are wondering whether the politician only wanted publicity. With the heavy rains likely to continue, the residents are not at ease and want responsible government agencies to come clean on the matter or face another round of protests.