A governor from Coast who is building a skyscraper in Nairobi's Westlands is in trouble. The National Environment Management Authority has stopped construction of the building after it emerged that the county chief used dubious means to obtain approvals. The governor could soon find himself in court after the state agency reportedly vowed to institute prosecution. Has Nema finally started to bite? Well, only time will tell. It would appear that Deputy President William Ruto's handlers are letting him down big time. The DP's humiliation at Lee Funeral Home, where he was barred from viewing retired President Moi's body, tells it all. That he was not expected at the funeral home is in no doubt if the events that unfolded from his arrival to departure are anything to go by. A VIP of his calibre could at least have been properly briefed of the events at the morgue before he could depart from his Harambee Annex office. However, it would appear some state functionaries who had arrived earlier at the morgue and were determined to humiliate him, erected some hurdles on the way with no senior government official to brief him. A senior leader in Parliament has panicked after a rumour spread that he might be relocated from his elegant office. The politician, who has a well-furnished office complete with staff, was overhead at a five-star city hotel saying that there was a plot to punish him by moving his office to a far-flung wing of the premises. It is not clear why the plot to kick him out of the current wing, but there are reports that he could have fallen out of favour with some people who pull the strings within Parliament Buildings. That the office is to be refurbished is the reason being floated for the planned ‘eviction’. A dangerous cartel associated with a troubled local bank that underwent restructuring is under the microscope following the unearthing of mega theft of borrowers’ property. Apparently, the cartel, working in cahoots with officers from the DCI’s Land Fraud Department, collude to steal property from hapless Kenyans. Their most common MO is staging fake auctions that are conducted unprocedurally and which purport to sell properties at ridiculous prices that cannot cover the cost of the debts. The new management is slowly uncovering the racket and all indicators are that some employees of the bank, which was assimilated, a number of crooked officers from the Ministry of Lands and malcontents from DCI’s Land Fraud Department will soon face the music.