Speculation was rife on Wednesday at the County Assembly of Nairobi over the possibility a notice of motion to impeach embattled Governor Mike Sonko was ready to be tabled. This is even as a section of Jubilee MCAs had a meeting with Sonko at his Upper Hill office when they were supposed to be in attending plenary. The majority of Jubilee MCAs were absent from the chambers with only around 10 MCAs spotted. Roysambu MCA Peter Warutere confirmed the meeting, saying that they were with the governor in his office at Upper Hill. “The governor called for a meeting before the plenary and we are here to discuss the issue of the coming notice on impeachment. It might be introduced in the house today but since I no longer sit in the House Business Committee, I cannot confirm,” he said. A second term MCA who sought anonymity confirmed that Jubilee MCAs were in Upper Hill.“Majority of us (Jubilee MCAs ) are in Upper Hill having a meeting and we have decided that we will not append our signatures to oust our governor ,” the ward rep said. An hour before the plenary started, Makadara MP George |Aladwa sent a letter to the ODM MCAs through Minority leader David Mberia telling the MCAs not to support the impeachment. “I have been directed by the Party leader Hon Raila Odinga to advise the Honorable Members that the party is NOT supporting the move. As such, you are hereby directed NOT to vote and/ or append your signatures on any proposed impeachment unless advised otherwise,” read the letter However, ODM’s secretary general Edwin Sifuna dismissed Aladwa’s letter making it clear that the party does not in any manner wish to interfere with MCAs business. “The Party has become aware through social media of a letter allegedly written by Nairobi County Chair Hon. George Aladwa purportedly directing ODM MCAs in the county assembly not to endorse or participate in an impeachment process to remove Governor of Nairobi, Hon. Mike Mbuvi Sonko,” “We wish to make it clear that the Party and the Party Leader do not and will not interfere with the power granted directly by the people to Members of the County Assembly in exercise of any of their functions including over-sighting the executive’ he said Sifuna also stated that official communication on any matter of the party is entirely the responsibility of the Secretary General. Embakasi MCA Michael Ogada who was gathering the signatures said that the threshold for the notice of impeachment was met last year and the impeachment plan was proceeding as planned. He said that the not far from Wednesday, the impeachment will be brought to the house. “The plane is almost landing. Nairobians are suffering and also the MCAs are suffering but a few of us are bold enough to speak ,” he said. Ogada said that they have to ensure that the grounds for impeachment are firm enough to avoid hitches as it proceeds to the Senate. “The party is right behind us and don’t expect it to openly come out and announce it. As legislators we work with sober minds and don’t depend on handouts,” he said.