Parents of the 15 Kakamega Primary School pupils who perished in a stampede will wait longer to receive money raised during a joint prayer service 10 days ago. The national government, teacher unions and Western leaders donated Sh5.3 million but some of the parents complained they had not received the donation despite the money having been raised to support funeral expenses. The delay has left parents of the departed children struggling with funeral arrangements. The last three victims of the stampede were buried on Saturday in different parts of the county. Each of the 14 bereaved families was allocated Sh100,000 by the national government, out of which Sh24,000 was deducted from each to cater for the service. The last victim died later after the money had been disbursed. The Council of Governors gave Sh2 million, the Ministry of Education (Sh1.4 million) and the National Government Disaster Fund (Sh700, 000 ) and Kuppet (Sh500,000 ). ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang'ula gave Sh100,000 each. Others were Cotu boss Francis Atwoli, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala and Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion who donated Sh100, 000 each. West Kenya Sugar Company gave Sh140,000. But on Tuesday, Kakamega county commissioner Pauline Dola said the money raised at the service was in safe hands. "I didn't put the money in my account. We're waiting for the governor (Wycliffe Oparanya) to come possibly next week then we can call the parents and give them their money," she said. Oparanya said he was looking for more money before it's shared out, Dola said. "Let us stop these speculations. In fact, another Sh400,000 was sent recently from the CoG," the administrator said. The 15 died of asphyxia in a stampede whose cause police are yet to unravel. Commission on Administration of Justice chairperson Florence Kajuju on Monday said in Kakamega that the Office of the Ombudsman will carry out systemic investigations and make recommendations including compensation of the 15 affected families. Deputy President William Ruto said at the school on February 4 that the government would compensate the families. Edited by R.Wamochie