Two medics want Cabinet secretaries James Macharia and Raychelle Omamo charged with attempted mass murder. They say Macharia (Transport) and Omamo (Foreign Affairs) casually let into the country 239 passengers aboard a plane from China amid concerns of the Coronavirus outbreak. In documents filed in court, Dr Joseph Mithika and Cyprian Mwirabua say it was outrageous for the government to advise the 239 passengers to self-quarantine, hence action should be taken against the Cabinet members. The Chinese Embassy has since confirmed that there will be more flights arriving at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport over the coming weeks amid concerns over the virus. However, on Friday, the High Court suspended all flights from China. Justice James Makau issued the ruling following a case filed by the Law Society of Kenya. He said the matter is of great public interest. On January 10, the World Health Organization issued advice for international travel and trade in relation to the outbreak of pneumonia caused by a new coronavirus in China. It recommended that as provided by international health regulations, countries such as Kenya should ensure procedures are in place for passing information about sick travellers between conveyances and points of entry as well as between points of entry and national health authorities. Dr Mithika says Kenya lacks the capacity to contain an outbreak of the virus. Kenya, being a third world country, lacks medical facilities, expertise and modern health mechanisms to counter mass infection, he says. There is no vaccine or specific antiviral medicine to prevent or treat the disease, which originated from China. So far, it has claimed the lives of more than 2,800 people and infected about 83,000 others worldwide. The doctors want an order compelling the Cabinet secretaries for Health, Interior, Transport and Foreign Affairs, the Attorney General and the Kenya Airports Authority, all included as respondents, to put in place reasonable preventive mechanisms to protect Kenyans. Also sought is an order preventing the respondents from allowing into the country by air, sea and land any person from China or any other country designated by the WHO as a hotspot. Mithika further wants the court to declare that by casually letting into the country 239 passengers aboard a Chinese flight, thus putting the lives of citizens at grave risk of the virus, the respondents ought to be jointly held liable, thus action taken against them, including but not limited to charges of attempted mass murder. In its petition, the LSK had also sought an order compelling the government to prepare and present to the court for scrutiny a public health emergency contingency plan to control, prevent and manage any outbreak or spread of the disease in Kenya. It said CS Sicily Kariuki has generally failed to disseminate to the public information on risks, detection, prevention or control as well as signs and symptoms and health facilities to report to in case of infection. "There is no hotline or other media for the public to seek, access, share or supply information concerning the disease. The state actions and omissions threaten the right to health and life that conservatory orders are necessary to preserve life, health and limb in the pendency of the petition,” it said. The society said Sicily had yet to formulate a functional public health emergency contingency plan at points of entry to respond to public health eventually. “Failure to disseminate risk communication messages at points of entry and to the public in order to raise awareness among travellers and public about signs and symptoms of the disease, when to seek medical care and report of their travel history is a violation of the right to health under Article 43 of the Constitution." It added that failure by the state to adhere to the advice of the WHO was a violation of the International Health Regulations (2005), which form part of the laws of Kenya. The LSK also argued that the state's decision to allow China Southern Company Airline to resume nonessential weekly flights to Kenya without a functional public health emergency contingency plan was a threat to the right to life.