A looming standoff in Parliament is threatening to frustrate the filling of the vacant IEBC positions. The Senate and the National Assembly have clashed over the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (Amendment) Bill that provides a framework for filling the commissioner positions. The proposed amendments provide the procedure for the formation of a selection panel that will recruit and fill any future vacancies at the agency. Senators are set to endorse changes introduced to the bill by the Senate Justice and Legal Affairs Committee (JLAC), effectively causing a standoff with the sister house. This will likely derail the passage of the bill and delay the hiring of new officer holders, nearly two years since they fell vacant. The committee chaired by Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei recommended qualifications for the members of the IEBC selection panel and reduced their number from 11, as approved by the National Assembly, to seven. It has also proposed an additional representative from the Parliamentary Service Commission (PSC). "Parliament is a representative of the people because we are here on behalf of other Kenyans. Therefore, we thought that PSC being members of the selection panel will allow Parliament to have direct input in the entire process,” said JLAC in its report The legislators threw their weight behind the committee’s proposals during a debate in the chamber last week. Though they did not vote on the proposed changes because of quorum hitches, nearly all who contributed to the debate on supported the report. Should they endorse the proposals, the bill will be sent to mediation, a situation that will further derail the filling of the vacancies. The IEBC has been operating with only three commissioners — Abdi Guliye, Boya Mulu and chairman Wafula Chebukati since April 2018. This after the resignation of four commissioners — vice chairperson Consolata Maina, Margaret Mwachanya, Paul Kurgat and Roselyne Akombe. The standoff comes at a time when the electoral commission is set to begin boundaries review and delimitation next month. The country is jostling for a referendum. There has been a push and pull over whether to recruit more commissioners to meet the mandatory seven or disband the Chebukati-led IEBC. During the debate on Thursday, senators giving their views on the proposed amendments to the IEBC Act held that a fully constituted electoral commission should be in place because of the prevailing push for a referendum. "Were it not for court decisions to validate that the commission can continue to work with three commissioners, we would have been in a major crisis. So, the country has stayed for a long time without a selection panel," Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen said. Murkomen spoke when moving the IEBC Amendment No.3 Bill (National Assembly Bills No.35 of 2019) for the second reading. Under the proposal, the selection panel is to comprise seven people, four (two men and two women) nominated by the PSC. Unlike in 2016 when religious organisations had the lion's share in the panel, the Justice committee has given them only two slots. The PSC, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, the Law Society of Kenya and the National Gender and Equality Commission will be allowed to name one person each. The Kenya National Commission on Human Rights and the Inter-Religious Council of Kenya shall also name one and two persons each respectively. Cherargei said, "It is the thinking of the National Assembly that we should have a selection panel in place with proper qualification. It is important that we have a fully constituted IEBC in office." He said the committee observed the importance to specify the number of commissioners as provided in the bill. "This will avoid conflict of Parliament or both houses if unable to agree on a number at any particular time. We agreed on seven so that in case there are differences between both houses, it becomes easy to resolve," Cherargei added. For his part, Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang’ said he was convinced that the country needs an electoral commission that is fit for purpose.