The widow of slain Kiiru Boys High School principal has testified her husband had been facing death threats from numerous quarters. Jane Muthoni, the prime suspect in the murder of Solomon Mwangi, told the High Court in Nakuru on Tuesday that the Directorate of Criminal Investigations had never pursued the threats. Muthoni introduced a completely new angle of death threats. She told the court she had a strong conviction a car dealer she identified as Samuel Karanja who was to import vehicles for the family could have killed her husband after squandering his money. "My husband had given Karanja him more than Sh1.5 million but he never kept his end of the deal, which resulted to tensions between them," she said. Muthoni told the court that her husband reported death threats from Karanja at the Kiriaini police station on November 1, 2016, a few days before his disappearance and murder. Muthoni was principal at Ecaciri Girls Secondary School in Kiambu. She and Isaack Ng'ang'a, commonly known as Gikuyu, are charged with Mwangi's murder. Another suspect, Nelson Njiru, is still at large. An accomplice-turned-state witness, Joseph Njuguna, commonly known as Karis, is serving seven years in prison after he pleaded guilty. Muthoni and Gikuyu allegedly committed the offence between November 6 and November 11, 2016, at Karakuta Coffee estate in Juja subcounty, Kiambu. She claimed that the officer who initially investigated the murder, Japheth Maingi, had told her that Karanja was in Ruiru on November 5, 6 and 7, 2016, at around the time her husband disappeared. "Maingi had come asking me if I was in communication with Karanja since his phone signals had been picked in Ruiru on the said dates, yet he worked and lived in Mombasa," the widow said. She questioned why the investigators ignored that line of investigation yet there were indicators that there was bad blood between the two men and a motive for murder. Muthoni told the court she was not in contact with Karanja at any given time because the business deal was between him and her husband. She also alleged that some school principals in Murang'a and an M-Pesa attendant could have colluded with unknown people to kill Mwangi. The prosecution case closed in June last year but had been delayed  since the resident judge Joel Ngugi had been indisposed. (Edited by V. Graham)   