@magatinews An uneasy calm is returning to the Ngararo area in Transmara West, Narok county, following weeks of intermittent fighting between the two Maasai clans of Uasin Gishu and Siria. The two sides have for more than four decades been embroiled in battles over the common boundary between the Ngararo-Enoraated areas. More than 600 people are said to have perished in 40 years In an effort to contain the violence, a team from the National Cohesion and Integration Commission this week will preside over a series of football matches among the warring youth. "The Commission had mooted the idea and officials are already on the way to organise the matches. We believe this will cement peace," deputy county commissioner Hassan Nur said. The youth will play football and learn about the importance of living in peace and harmony. They will learn about better ways to solve their differences,  Nur said. "Many a time it is the youth who bear the brunt of the fightings and thus these games come at an opportune time," he told the Star. In four decades, more than 600 people, mainly youth, have been killed since the conflict started, clan elder John Leteipa said. The crisis has left many women widowed, especially in the fertile crescent along the contested border, where they struggle to educate their children. Residents are now saying they want peace at all costs. They wat the government to forestall further attacks along the contested border and help find a durable solution to the conflict. Since the recent meeting between clan members and county commissioner George Natembeya, there has been no fighting. "Normalcy is fast returning, we hope it will hold," Nur said. Speaking to journalists, elder Joseph Naileta said herders from both sides can now roam freely with their cattle along the fertile ridges where youth from both sides had been fighting. Naileta is one among the many parents who have lost sons to the conflict. He said radical measures are needed to keep the clashes from recurring and allow the resumption of economic activities. Last week, the two clans resolved to end the skirmishes and maintain peace even as the government moves in to sort out the boundary issue. The government has since said it will issue title deeds to them by April to resolve the conflict Politicians suspected of fueling the skirmishes have been warned of punishment. By yesterday, the DCC said security patrols were going on along the volatile corridor that had been at the epicenter of the fightings. The Nkararo-Enooretet boundary is the source of dispute between Siria and Uasin Gishu clans in Trans Mara West subcounty. (Edited by V. Graham)