Two more people tested negative for coronavirus at the weekend in Kisumu and Bomet, the Ministry of Health says. The two had recently travelled to China. As of February 24, Kenya has investigated 17 alerts and all have tested negative. By Wednesday, coronavirus had infected 81,234 people in 42 countries and killed 2,769 people — all mostly in China's Hubei province. "Both Kenya cases did not meet the World Health Organization case definition for a suspected case," the ministry said in a statement. The ministry also confirmed that China Southern Airlines resumed its flights to Nairobi on Wednesday. "All 239 passengers were screened onboard, cleared and advised to self – quarantine for the next 14 days," it said in a statement. The ministry appealed to the public to remain vigilant as the risk is still high and maintain basic hand and respiratory hygiene. "In addition, anyone showing symptoms of respiratory illness such as fever, coughing, difficulty in breathing and sneezing with a history of recent travel to China is advised to visit the nearest health facility for assessment and prompt management," the ministry said. On Wednesday, WHO reported that Algeria had become the second African country to report a case of the virus. Health authorities said an Italian adult, who arrived in the country on February 17, had tested positive for the disease. “This is the first case in the WHO African region,” WHO Regional Director for Africa Dr Matshidiso Moeti said. “The window of opportunity the continent has had to prepare for the coronavirus is closing. All countries must ramp up their preparedness.” This followed Africa’s first case which was reported earlier this month in a foreigner in Egypt. However, he tested negative in subsequent tests. Algeria is one of 13 countries, which WHO had identified as a top priority for preparedness due to their direct links and a high volume of travel to China. The announcement came as questions increased on whether Kenya Airways' continued suspension of direct flights to China was necessary. The airline suspended all its flights to Guangzhou, China, following the coronavirus scare. Early this week, the airline said it lost Sh800 million in revenue since it suspended the flights. Acting chief executive Allan Kilavuka told a local weekly that the losses include foregone passengers and cargo revenue.  At least 30,311 have recovered. In an interesting irony, China on Wednesday announced that travellers entering Beijing are to be subject to 14 days quarantine if they have been to countries seriously hit by the outbreak. Edited by R.Wamochie