Quins will be seeking revenge when they host Homeboyz in the Enterprise Cup pre-quarterfinal on Saturday. A fortnight ago, the Deejays demolished Quins 48-3 in a one-sided Kenya Cup duel at the RFUEA ground. Fly-half Eden Agero, lock Llyod Kopondo and back row Edward Shitanda have been recalled to the Quins starting line-up. Agero replaces Lyle Asiligwa who switches to scrum-half in a move that will see Dominic Osino take up the fullback position with Mike Ochieng dropping to the bench. Kopondo is in for Roxy Dan Suchi who moves to the back row as Shitanda replaces Mark Omonding. Homeboyz will make five changes from the side that beat Top Fry Nakuru 47-5.  Fullback Michael Wanjala, centre Max Kangeri, fly-half Mohammed Omollo, hooker Aaron Khalechi and lock Charles Omondi have been rested. Leonard Mugaisi moves to fullback, Colins Shikoli and Zedden Marrow on the wing, Augustine Lugonzo at halfback, Bruce Shiemi at hooker and Emong Eliphas at second row ad have been named to start. Kenya Cup champions KCB have made 10 changes on their side ahead of Enterprise Cup pre quarterfinal clash against Strathmore Leos at the  Lions Den in Ruaraka. Oscar Simiyu, Curtis Lilako, Oliver Mang’eni, Rocky Aguko, Samuel Asati, Jacob Ojee, Brian Omondi, Peter Kilonzo and Darwin Mukidza have been rested while Michael Kimwele is on the bench. Patrick Ouko and Nelson Nyandat have joined Griffin Musila in the front-row. Nick Ongeri comes in the second row to partner with Francis Mwita. Steve Wamai and Brian Nyikuli, who have kept their places in the back-row while Elly Mukaisi has been handed a start on the open flank. Michael Wanjala and Shaban Ahmed have made a return to the starting squad. Levy Amunga moves to first centre to partner George Maranga who returns to the starting squad after last weekend’s miss. Isaac Njoroge and Elphas Adunga are also back to the first 15. Felix Wanjala, Derrick Juma, Brodie Kagia and Stafford Abeka are on the bench. On their part, Strathmore will start with Gieth Deng, Brian Ashira, Branam Billy and George Ouma in the forwards with Gunter Omollo, Newton Muchui and Ronald Yegon the pick of the backs.