Nairobi City Stars' unrelenting pursuit of a return to the top-flight league continues on Saturday when they take on midtable Kenya Police. With a ten-point cushion in the two automatic promotion slots, City Stars are playing with little pressure. The addition of experienced players like Ezekiel Odera, and Peter Opiyo to a team that already had Anthony Kimani, Salim Abdalla, David Gateri has bolstered the Kawangware-based sid with the duo boasting of vast experience in the top division. Odera said this, however, does not mean that they will underrate any of their opponents. “We know the quality we have as a team but we have to show it on the pitch consistently. We cannot just appear and hope that we will take the points. We have to work hard for them. Luckily, all the players recognise that and there is no chance of complacency,” he said. City Stars have 55 points with Bidco on 51 and Nairobi Stima on 45. Second-placed Bidco will be at home to relegation-threatened St. Joseph while Nairobi Stima will be in Awendo to take on Migori Youth on Sunday. Coast Stima, who are within striking distance of a playoff berth with 40 points in position five, will engage Modern Coast Rangers in a Coast derby. Coast Stima drew 1-1 with Muranga Seal while 14th-placed Modern Coast will hope to bounce back from a 1-0 loss at home to Bidco last time out. Meanwhile, Ushuru will seek redemption from their 2-1 loss to Fortune Sacco on Sunday. They are sixth with 39 points ahead of their trip to take on Shabana. Fixtures: Saturday: Mt. Kenya United vs Fortune Sacco (Camp Toyoyo, 11 am) Nairobi City Stars vs Kenya Police (Camp Toyoyo, 1 pm) FC Talanta vs APS Bomet (Camp Toyoyo, 3 pm) Vihiga Bullets vs Kibera Black Stars (Bukhungu Stadium, 1 pm) Vihiga United vs Administration Police (Mumias Complex, 2 pm) Bidco United vs St. Joseph’s Youth (Thika Stadium, 3 pm) Coast Stima vs Modern Coast Rangers (Mbaraki Sports Club, 3 pm) Sunday: Migori Youth vs Nairobi Stima (Awendo, Green Stadium, 3 pm) Shabana vs Ushuru (Gusii Stadium, 3 pm) 