Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja on Thursday addressed the county assembly in a move that signifies a new working relationship with MCAs. Samboja used the opportunity to highlight major strides made by his administration in the implementation of key projects in health, agriculture, food security, mining and housing, among other dockets. He said that despite hard economic times in the country, the county government is navigating through the best available avenues to improve its economy and implement the County Integrated Development Plan 2018-22 in line with the national government’s Big Four Agenda. Samboja sought to assure the house of the executive’s support in its oversight role. He emphasised efforts to improve services in the county’s five hospitals, 19 health centres and 43 dispensaries. “Sh250 million has been allocated towards the ongoing construction of a fully fledged theatre at Mwatate Subcounty Hospital, renovation of an X-ray block at Wesu Subcounty Hospital, facelift of the building structures at the Moi County Referral Hospital, renovation of Taveta Subcounty Hospital’s Maternity Block,” Samboja told MCAs. He revealed that another Sh100 million has been set aside for the purchase of pharmaceuticals and non-pharmaceuticals for Moi County Referral Hospital. The governor said extension support services, crop development, and soil and water management have been prioritised to boost food security. Also cited were agribusiness and market development, mechanisation of agriculture, and irrigation. Taita Taveta is mainly an agricultural county, with 80 per cent of its population relying on the sector, which contributes 38 per cent of its GDP. Samboja attributed their progress to his administration's efforts to strengthen the pillars of Resource mobilisation, partnerships and investments. He noted that the government surpassed its revenue target for the first time since the inception of devolution, collecting Sh332 million out of a projected target of Sh300 million. "These efforts are all aimed at improving agricultural value chain development while taking into account adoption of technologies that will spur growth in this sector," he said. Pointing out on a multimillion-shilling banana processing plant in Taveta, the county boss said they target to increase household income through value addition and linkage of farmers to reliable markets. Once completed, the plant will create 38,930 direct and indirect jobs. Samboja urged the MCAs to swiftly pass the Movement of Livestock & Livestock Products Bill, 2019, currently before this assembly. "It is also worth noting that we are currently working on the Ranching and Grazing Policy, Artificial Insemination and Livestock Breeding Technologies Bill and the Poultry Policy," he said. In his quest to end perennial water shortage, Samboja said the government has initiated notable projects ranging from developing new water sources, drilling boreholes, and installing solar power. "We have sunk seven boreholes in Zungulukani, Kituma, Majengo, Kabomboro, Kasaani, Mwasere and Marungu. Efforts to fully operationalise the boreholes are ongoing."