KDF troops in Lamu on Thursday launched community outreach to encourage resident to fight violent extremism and tip them off to al Shabaab attacks. It's a kinder and gentler battle for hearts and minds since residents are suspicious of the military and security forces, fearing forced disappearances and extrajudicial killings. Security forces remind them that they are people, too.  The troops are part of the multi-agency Operation Linda Boni that started in September 2015, with mixed results. Officials say it has prevented major attacks but pockets of trouble remain and they need community cooperation. The outreach programme is being carried out with Kiunga Youth Bunge Initiative and it reaches out to youth, elders, women, traders and  others The programme targets residents in terror-prone areas in Lamu, urging them to cooperate with security agencies to ensure everyone's safety. It also seeks to fight radicalisation. Linda Boni was launched by the national government in September 2015 with the aim of flushing out al Shabaab militants holed up inside Boni forest. They use it as a launching pad for attacks and retreat after attacking Lamu and neighbouring counties. The Kenya Defence Forces are working with the General Service Unit, the Rapid Border Patrol Unit, Rapid Deployment Unit, Kenya Wildlife Service and the Kenya Forest Service, among others. The operation has been concentrated on the three counties bordering Somalia including Lamu, Garissa and Tana River. Despite the presence of security forces in the operation for more than five years, Shabaab attacks continue to sporadically, killing civilians and security officers. The soldiers from the various camps were accompanied by Kiuna Youth Bunga representatives. They toured Kwasasi, Magogoni, Mkondoni and Hindi where they chatted informally with residents about security and how insecurity hurts everyone. KDF admitted the programme aims to overcome suspicion, barriers of communication and encourage information sharing. Soldiers present themselves as approachable people like themselves, not faceless men in armour. "This is a practical programme to help reduce the stereotype that the military is unapproachable. We're seeking to form a good relationship with residents," one soldier said. He said he was confident the programme's "soft approach" would help counter terrorism. “We want community members to cooperate with us by sharing information to help fighting the common enemy. When locals understand we're all victims and it's only through cooperation that we can win the war, they'll certainly own the process," he added. KYBI executive director Noor Daher urged communities to share any information for better development and prosperity. “We salute the KDF for this noble gesture. They have proven that ideology can’t be defeated by guns but rather by better ideas and a more compelling vision," Daher sad. Lamu peace ambassador Ahmed Famau urged fellow youth to resist the urge to join extremist groups saying it will only lead to an early death. Edited by R.Wamochie