Perfect comebacks are rare and intriguing. In 2003 Ethiopian marathon runner Kenenisa Bekele, in one of the greatest marathon races ever, made a stunning comeback victory over Mo Farah at the Bupa Great North Run. Earlier in the race Bekele had drifted behind by more than metres at the 10km mark behind Farah and Gebrselassie, his fellow countryman. We have many similar comeback stories where the underdog triumphs. This is where the Jubilee government finds itself—written off as a downright failure. During the 2013 and 2017 election campaigns, President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto promised to create 1.3 million jobs every year to tackle unemployment. They presented themselves as a youth-led government when they assumed office after the 2013 election. It was jubilation for the youth and a big win for ‘kamwana’. However, from the soles of their feet to the rumbling of their stomachs and the bareness of their wallets, the youth have nothing to smile about. Their faces paint a picture of disappointment and torrid anguish. The hustle for jobs has been hard and the intense corruption that has crippled government continues to ensure that more youth sleep hungry. Some have resorted to crime, betting and drugs to cope. During an M-Pesa Foundation school event in 2018, a young schoolgirl called name Joyce Nyawira asked Uhuru to expound on his legacy. His initial response was a baffled 'wow', then he went ahead to announce that his legacy would tie to national unity and triumph over corruption, two areas that the Jubilee government has failed tremendously. Even though the government's woes and the horrible position it finds itself are self-inflicted, the remaining two years present a chance for a crucial comeback. The youth are a key player and can make or break Kenya's future. Twenty-five per cent of the population is 18-34 years old; those below 15 years make up more than 43 per cent. This youth bulge can be good or it can be a problem, depending on how we look at it, the policies we create and the opportunities we generate. The high number of youths is an opportunity to foster a positive economic future since they are crucial agents of progress and change. Some 500,000 to 800,000 young Kenyans enter the job market each year but the economy lacks significant employment opportunities. The 1.3 million promised jobs are nowhere to be seen. The time left for Jubilee calls for a Kenenisa Bekele moment; one that would change conversations and save face for a government that is having a hard time explaining what impact it has had. SMEs employ most youths and create more than 80 per cent of all jobs besides contributing to almost half of the country’s GDP. The government should strengthen its support to SMEs, whether formal or informal, through sustainable and protective policies. Other areas of focus should be arts and culture, agriculture and sports, all of which have shown tremendous promise in creating jobs. The government should focus on such low-lying fruits not big, audacious and ambitious projects that have proved to be corruption nests and grossly tainted its image. The youth who form the future of the economy must be safeguarded at all costs. Otherwise, history will judge this government as one that cared not for the plight of its citizens but exploited and looted them. Communications expert based in Nairobi