Shujaa have been drawn in tricky Pool B for the Los Angeles Sevens at the end of the month. The Kenya Sevens team has been pitted against South Africa, Ireland and Canada. Kenya b are set to open their campaign against South Africa. The two teams clashed at the Hamilton Sevens with Paul Feeney's charges winning 36-14 against the Blitzbokke. In the two previous clashes in Dubai and Cape Town, Kenya lost 17-12 and 17-5 respectively. Shujaa face Ireland next in their second preliminary pool match. Kenya and the Ireland met in Cape Town with both sides sharing the spoils 24-24  in a thriller. Kenya's final pool game will be against Canada. Kenya had a dismal campaign in Sydney, where they failed to win a match , picking up a mere point in their worst performance of the series so far. Kenya Sevens are currently placed 11th on the log with 26 points after four tournaments. Due to an outcry from fans and teams,  World Rugby have brought back the old format  allowing only the top two teams in each pool to qualify for the quarterfinals for this tournament and the Vancouver leg a week later. In Hamilton and Sydney, the top four teams from each pool qualified for the semifinals while the quarterfinals were scrapped in both tournaments to accommodate the women's event which was being played concurrently. Fiji, who bounced back by winning in Sydney, headline Pool 'A' and face Argentina, France and South Korea. Hosts USA, who have won the past two home tournaments, are in Pool C and will battle it out against Australia, Scotland and Samoa. England have a date against log leaders New Zealand, Wales and Spain in Pool 'D'.Team Kenya arrived on Tuesday and will resume training next week ahead of the North American leg of the tour. Elsewhere, Mean Machine edged hosts Egerton University 18-15 in a postponed mid-week Championship clash on Wednesday. Bruce Odhiambo bagged two tries for Mean Machine with captain Festus Shiasi adding a conversion and two penalties. Fullback Leon Nyang and centre Emmanuel Walela went over for Egerton Wasps with Nyang adding the extras. Machine bagged four points from the win to stay second on 44 points— 10 behind second placed MMUST.