Nyeri government will partner with Almasi Beverages Ltd in an initiative dubbed Kuza Kazi programme to create 1,000 jobs for the youth in the county. Almasi Beverages Limited is a public holding company of three Coca-Cola beverages bottling operations in Kenya. The initiative, according to Gender, Youth and Social Services executive Esther Ndung’u, will create the jobs within three years. "This initiative, which is aligned to the government’s Big Four agenda, aims at economically empowering youths and address unemployment,” Ndung’u said on Monday. The programme will start with 150 youths, who will be introduced to the Coca-Cola supply chain. The group will be offered business start-up kits containing an icebox, a parasol (umbrella), Coca-Cola merchandise, soft and energy drinks, and branding materials. The project will be implemented in collaboration with USAID's  Kenya Youth Employment and Skills Program, the Coca-Cola Foundation through Almasi Bottlers and Nyeri Youth Bunge Sacco. The kit will be the initial investment, she said. “It is envisaged that from the profit gained, the youth who will operate under the supervision of Coca-Cola partners will enhance their income and savings, expand and grow their businesses and build their potential to become future employers,” she said. The programme comes after the launch of the Nyeri Youth Employment Compact on December 11 last year. The launch brought together various stakeholders from the public and private sector and is meant to enhance employability among the youths in Nyeri. “The partnership called the Nyeri County Youth Employment Compact creates a platform where various stakeholders in the youth workforce can work with the county government towards enhancing absorption of youth in the existing job markets within and outside the county,” Ndung’u said. She said the county is in its final phases of solidifying the framework and expect that potential employers in the county will start absorbing youth for jobs, internships, attachments or apprenticeship. This, she said, will help them in career progression and creating employment. “We believe it is important to join hands with key stakeholders to look for a solution for our youth,” she added. "Over 30 partners have been engaged, with some having signed their commitments,” she said. She noted that Almasi Beverages was the first to honour their commitment through the Kuza Kazi Initiative to be launched later this month. USAID’s K-YES will be exiting Nyeri in late March 2020 and the compact members will ensure that even after exit, the programme will be sustainable and public-private partnership strengthened. The department has also partnered with the National Youth Service to start and implement the Nyeri County Youth Service programme. The youth will undergo paramilitary training to "instill discipline, character, mindset and attitude change, soft and business skills". “After completion of the programme, the department will facilitate the necessary linkages to the existing job markets and entrepreneurship opportunities through public-private partnerships,” she said.