Accountability in management of public funds could soon run into jeopardy due to the delay in appointing a new Auditor General, Public Accounts Committee chairman Opiyo Wandayi has said. Wandayi said it is increasingly worrying that the appointment of the Auditor General has dragged on for almost six months since Edward Ouko's term ended. "In three months' time, we will be in a crisis because as a committee, we will have no report from the Auditor General's office to examine," Wandayi told the Star in an interview last week. The PAC chairman further said his committee had completed examining audited reports of 2014-15 and 2015-16, and was in the tail end of concluding the 2017-18 report, the last submitted by Ouko before he left office. Ouko retired in August last year after his nine-year non-renewable tenure expired. With the Public Audit Act having no clear provisions for transition unless the previous office holder dies, resigns, or is removed, Ouko's succession has been dogged with lack of clarity and delays. Upon his exit, the Public Service Commission recruited and shortlisted candidates who it forwarded to President Uhuru Kenyatta for selection and nomination. The President has, however, yet to nominate anyone for approval by Parliament. At some point, the position was re-advertised with claims that those shortlisted initially did not meet the technical qualities needed of the officeholder. But Wandayi said while his committee has upped its game in fast-tracking the examination of the reports submitted by the Auditor General's office, the delay will result in a backlog of the reports to be considered and this has the effect of directly affecting the amount counties get. "We are the first committee to fast track the auditing of the accounts so that the division of revenue is done based on the most recent documents. Now the delay in appointing the substantive officeholder is affecting this momentum," he said. Once his committee is done with the 2017-18 report, he said, they will not have any other report to consider, given that no other person can append a signature on the public account audit reports to validate them other than the substantive Auditor General. The effect of the delay, the Ugunja MP said, would also be felt at the county level as the law requires the division of revenue be done based on the last audited accounts. "I have repeatedly raised this issue on the floor of the House and outside. The problem is that the law does not recognise someone acting in that position or even a deputy. This complicates the issue," he added. Things got worse after activist Okiya Omtatah successfully sued to halt the recruitment, challenging the decision to annul the initial process. Omtatah argued that PSC's decision to annul the entire process was ultra vires and illegal, as neither the President nor the panel has any inherent powers beyond what is stated in the law regarding filling in the position. “The decision to re-advertise the vacancy in the position of Auditor General is unconstitutional and, therefore, invalid, null and void,” Omtatah said in his application. Wandayi said while he was constrained to comment on its development, the court battle "was an unnecessary intervention as it could easily be avoided." "The process should have been concluded. We should have gotten the best from those who were shortlisted," he said, adding that 'it was not fair to keep the country waiting. PLOY TO WEAKEN ITS INDEPENDENCE International Center for Peace and Conflict Executive director Ndung'u Wainaina told the Star the absence of substantive auditor general had made "more than 150 government entities had their audit reports going unapproved, some of which are now in breach of the set constitutional timelines." Failure by state firms to meet deadlines is just a tip of the iceberg, he said, adding that "the amount of the national resources shareable to the 47 counties depend on the efficiency of the Auditor General’s office." "The current vacuum at the Auditor General’s office may stretch the base year for measuring revenues even further. President should immediately nominate one of the three names which were forwarded to him and send to Parliament for vetting. " Ndung'u claimed that the refusal to appoint the auditor general from among the list forwarded to him was part of a systematic pattern by the Kenyatta administration to weaken the independence and stature of institutions of accountability, forcing himself to micromanage their operations. "When the powers of OAG are emasculated, by deciding who works there, then the oversight powers of Parliament are weakened and in effect, the overt declaration that Jubilee is out to fight corruption will be shattered," he said. STATE OF THE JUDICIARY Weighing in on the protracted pull and push between the Executive and the Judiciary, Wandayi said the grandstanding will negatively affect the latter as it projected a threat to its independence. He said a functional, transparent, independent and fair Judiciary was the intention of the framers of the 2010 Constitution, and adequately and sustainable resourcing it is part of the ways of attaining it. "[The] unnecessary battle of wits projected in the two arms of government is uncalled for," he said, adding that "the independence of the judiciary and the JSC [Judicial service commission] is critical." He added that the President is yet to demonstrate good faith in engaging with the Judiciary, noting that the list of the nominated Court of Appeal judges is "gathering dirt on his desk without action". "[It is] unfortunate that as we speak, we have a serious shortage of appeal judges in the country yet the JSC has done its bit." CONSTITUTION CHANGE The lawmaker said there was need to expedite the anticipated change of the Constitution to avoid dragging the process as" the majority of have expressed immense support". Wundayi said the Yussuf Haji-led BBI task force had done a lot of work in compiling the proposals, and thus did not warrant a six-month extension. "They should not sit pretty yet Kenyans are very impatient. The process needs to be completed within a short time and get to the referendum which is inevitable," he said. Expressing his support for regional governments as an ODM idea, Wandayi said, the heads of the proposed tiers of administration will be drawn from Kenyans of good standing, not necessarily the current crop of governors serving their last term in office.