Kenyan team is set to play in the men’s U-19 Lacrosse World Championship in Ireland in July this year. The team will be the first and only African team to participate in the competition. A total of 74 players are currently in camp at St. Peter’s Mumias ahead of the national team trials, where head coach Storm Trentham is expected to select the final squad of 20 players. The team will have their final training camp at Eagles Point in Nakuru a week before the event. “Being the first of its kind for Kenya, most of the players lack the experience that their competitors have but that does not stop them from dreaming big,” said coach Trentham. “I hope to finish in the top two positions in our group with full knowledge that the knock-out stages will go either way. My goal is for Kenya to win 4 games and for one or two of our attackers to finish in the top 20 of the tournament based on their performances and statistics. My ultimate goal is for a player to be scouted and given the opportunity to play lacrosse and study abroad,” said coach Trentham. With the sport being new to Kenyans, custodians of the sport in the country have set up an online fundraising account to help cater for the bills required to grace the tournament. “We are trying to first make it to Ireland. We were invited to the tournament and we are required to raise Sh20 million. We are, therefore, relying on sponsors and well-wishers to raise funds,” Trentham said. The tournament to be played at the University of Limerick will feature 20 countries from various parts of the world including perennial winners the USA. Their female counterparts made their maiden appearance in the U19 women’s Lacrosse Championship in Canada last year. The inclusion of Kenya in the tournaments takes lacrosse a step closer to being recognised as an Olympic sport since it has to be played in every continent for it to be certified. Kenya became the 54th member of International Lacrossen Federation after being approved in December 2015. They became the second African country to achieve that feat after Uganda.   