Days after former President Daniel Moi was laid to rest, it now emerges an administrator was on the receiving end during funeral plans in Kabarak. A witness tells Corridors the senior government official was twice told by the generals to keep off the plans and keep off politics. This man made several attempts for his boss to be given a prominent role in the burial plans. The idea was for DP William Ruto to be eclipsed in eulogising Moi and someone else would invite President Kenyatta to speak. But no-nonsense generals told the man to take a walk, in so many words. Is a certain government official proving so powerful that he defies the orders from a Cabinet secretary? The man, an administrator in the ministry, is said to be running around without fear of reprisal. Why is he operating with impunity? A CS intimates to Corridors that she has been obliged to threaten to sanction the officer unless he briefs her on matters affecting the ministry. The man is said to be the mastermind of questionable dealings in his department. Curiously, it is said the man is being protected by powerful individuals in the private sector. One of his benefactors runs a famous club. We shall reveal more about the story of the hapless CS, the rogue administrator and a cartel of vicious private sector players. Should President Kenyatta be worried about civil servants planning to enter politics in 2022? Sources whisper to Corridors a number of Cabinet secretaries have their sights firmly trained on power. A female CS who has been operating quietly is among those who have started making plans. The CS is said to be planning to contest for a gubernatorial seat. While there is no problem being ambitious, sources whisper to Corridors some of her moves are now informed by political interests. Those in the know say the minister is keen to make money by all means before the 2022 bell is rung. Who will help bodaboda operators within Ndhiwa subcounty from incessantly extortionate police who are making their operations virtually impossible? The officers erecting illegal roadblocks along Ndhiwa-Sori road openly demand Sh100 to Sh500 from each operator. Unable to satisfy the cops' insatiable appetite, the operators are now dropping passengers kilometres before the roadblocks, leaving them to travel the rest of the way on foot. At one time this extortion caught the attention of the ODM leader Raila Odinga who ordered the operators to defy crooked officers. Maybe it is time Police IG Hillary Mutyambai does more than rein in his boys who tainting the good reputation of the service. 