ODM leader Raila Odinga has set ground rules for the Building Bridges Initiative meeting in Narok Saturday. The county is hosting the fifth consultative forum bringing together its leaders and residents to present their recommendations on the unity initiative. Raila asked the coordinators to ensure participants reflect the ethnic and occupational diversity of the region. He wants ethnic minorities, herdsmen, farmers, women and the youth to be given a chance to speak at the public rally. In a statement by his spokesman Dennis Onyango, Raila said this because of the cosmopolitan nature of the seven counties that would be represented at the meeting. He assured the residents of the seven counties and their representatives that “all efforts are being made to create room for all viewpoints.” “We assure them that their concerns and interests will be discussed openly and constructively in a way that leaves the regions feeling united and involved in the making of a new Kenya,” the handshake co-principal said. The ODM leader appealed to the group to “soberly and jointly tackle the challenges that have been unique to them from the colonial era to date.” He urged leaders from the rift valley region to work together and exercise tolerance to make the BBI process a success. Raila’s sentiments followed concern by the National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC) over comments by Narok Senator Ledama Ole Kina. The lawmaker said the BBI meeting would be about the Maa community, comments which the NCIC condemned and promised to investigate. "Maasai issues will be better articulated by Maasais and I'm not going to apologise for that,” the Senator said. Leaders from the pastoralist communities in Rift Valley on Friday converged at the Maasai Mara University for a common position on the BBI. Kajiado Governor Joseph ole Lenku led the talks attended by leaders from Samburu and other parts of Rift Valley. NCIC said it was considering the matter and strongly condemned the utterances as those that may hinder cohesion in the country. “We urge Kenyans to maintain peace and continue engaging in the BBI process even as we look into the matter,” the commission said. The Narok meeting follows after similar ones held in Kitui – for Ukambani, Mombasa – for Coast region, Kakamega – for Western, and Kisii - for the Nyanza region. Among the outstanding issues from the meetings are the need for a third-tier government, implementation of the TJRC report and the expansion of the Executive to create a prime minister post. More groupings are lined up to present their memoranda to the BBI steering committee in hearings slated for next week. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and Amani’s Musalia Mudavadi are among notable names that have presented their proposals to the committee.