MCAs face a full in-tray as the Nairobi County Assembly resumes plenary sittings on Tuesday after a two-month recess. Plenty of crucial issues await the House led by the assembly leadership — Speaker, Majority and Minority leaders and Majority and Minority Whips. The big issues are the vetting of Governor Mike Sonko's deputy governor nominee Anne Kanunu,  passing a supplementary budget, paying bills and restructuring committees. And, they will also discuss the possible impeachment of Sonko himself who is facing graft charges and is forbidden by law to enter his physical office. DG vetting and CECs Majority leader Charles Thuo (Dandora III) said that the house will look into the vetting of the Deputy Governor nominee, carried out by the assembly's Committee on Appointments. Last week, The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission cleared the County’s Chief Officer for Disaster Anne Kananu for vetting as deputy governor. Her clearance certificate for vetting was given to her. The certificate is among the documents that were to be submitted to the clerk of the appointment's committee by Friday last week. The majority leader Thuo stated that the committee will sit on Monday to deliberate on the issue, examine her papers and set the date of the vetting. Also expected is the vetting of the two nominated County Executive Committee Members. On the two CECs nominees, according to Thuo,  the committee has not yet received a letter from the Office of the Governor requesting their vetting. On January 31, 2020, embattled Nairobi Governor Sonko nominated Mbagathi Hospital chairman George Osewe to head the trade docket and Karen Nyamu who is a director of the Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company Board to head the Agriculture docket. The two are to assume their positions only after being vetted and after the house adopts the vetting report from the appointments committee. Sonko's Impeachment Minority Chief Whip Peter Imwatok said the impeachment of Governor Sonko is on course. Now that the assembly is back in session, he said it would be possible to table the motion on impeachment as guided by the Standing Orders. “The MCAs of Nairobi do not have any other choice but to put the county in the right place. The error of sycophants in worshipping Sonko should come to an end and MCAS should realise that they are leaders,” Imwatok said “Those who think we are just taking hearsay should watch this space. We cannot let a county like Kiambu be able to give its people the way of direction and Nairobi being the capital city is left behind,” he added. Imwatok, who is also the Makongeni ward rep, said that Nairobi being the second-largest assembly will give Nairobi residents a clear picture of their mandate and roles as MCAs. The impeachment talks have sparked division the Assembly with those supporting Sonko on one side and the Pro -impeachment lawmaker on the other side. Imwatok claims so far 86 MCAS who have already signed the impeachment motion. Nairobi has 122 MCAS. One-third are required to sign a notice of intention to impeach; two-thirds of the total number of MCAS (122) are required to pass the motion of impeachment. If passed, the impeachment motion goes to the Senate for a trial on whether to uphold the governor's impeachment and removal. Clearance of the pending bills Minority Leader David Mberia said the house will ensure that the pending bills are cleared according to the law and without favouritism. "The issue on pending bills is a burning issue but as the legislative arm of the county government we will ensure that all contractors in the list of pending bills are paid, from the lowest to the highest," Mberia said. "No matter what it takes, we will make sure that even the least of money worth thousands will be paid. The person responsible for making the payment will have to do it according to the law with now without favourism," he added. Last year in December, it was mentioned in the last plenary sitting that lawyers were paid Sh970 million yet small-scale businesspeople in the county being owned even less than a million were not paid. In addition, Majority leader Thuo said that the house will look into the Supplementary budget which was tabled before the house on January 22, 2020. "The supplementary budget is a key document which as a house we must dispense with first. We are aware that the executive also included Sh3.5 billion for the pending bills," he said. Restructure of committees Both leaders said that the committees will be restructured to ensure effective oversight by the MCAs. The Majority leader said that a few changes will be made and that the members will be expected to give their full inputs." "The committees need to be vibrant and running so that the Wanjikus back in the ward can get full-service delivery. Knowing the specialities and strengths of the MCAs, some will be required to sit at various committees, "Thuo said. The county assembly has a total of 25 committees— 12 Sectoral committees and 13 Select committees His counterpart from the minority side said that that implementation of the house business will be expected from all the 122 members. " I chair the implementation committee and expect that the legislative implementation will be 100 per cent. I know the problem will be at the Executive, who fails to implement most of the items we pass and approve in the house, other than the Finance Bill and Budget," Mberia said.