The Agriculture ministry has initiated talks with a private-sector team and development partners to promote agribusiness ahead of the National Agricultural Summit slated for this month. During a roundtable discussion at CS Peter Munya's office on Saturday, they agreed to explore key areas of collaboration and partnership in line with Agricultural Sector Transformation and Growth Strategy (ASTGS) 2019-29. Those in attendance included Arif Neky from the United Nations Office in Nairobi and Kenya Private Sector Alliance (Kepsa) representative Lee Karuri. “Agribusiness is one of the critical economic sectors in this country and we must partner with the government through the Ministry of Agriculture to promote agribusiness,” Kenya National Chambers of Commerce and Industry (KNCCI) president Richard Ngatia said. He explained that KNCCI and Kepsa have agreed to collaborate on six priority areas to drive the economy and enhance a conducive business environment, adding that matters agriculture are part of the key areas. “The KNCCI shall take lead and drive the county participation through its county chapters where all stakeholders shall aggregate to address key agriculture sector issues,” he said. During the deliberations, it was resolved that the chamber will actively engage the ministry and lend support in championing agribusiness growth by enhancing public partnership especially with the Council of Governors and ASTGS. Munya said the ministry will partner and collaborate with the chamber to strengthen the key technical committees to drive the ASTGS. “There will be a Joint Agricultural Sector Coordination Committee (Jasccom); a joint committee between the CS office and CoG that will harmonise national and county agricultural policies,” Munya said. Through all the 47 county chapters, the chamber will offer technical support by conducting needs-based training to all value chain actors. Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) are bound to benefit from the training and capacity building programmes. Ngatia reiterated that the chamber is keen to facilitate mainstreaming youth and women participation in the Youth in Agribusiness Committee. Edited by R.Wamochie