Conmanship is usually an organised crime. For someone to obtain money by false pretence, they must organise themselves well in order to use dishonest or illegal methods to trick people into giving them money. In simple terms, a conman will persuade people to give him/her their money or property mostly by lying to them. In most cases, it will be an inside job in which you will have people in an organisation give information to outsiders, who will, in turn, use it to lie to the would-be victims. A conman will in most cases drop big names so that they can instill fear or create an impression that the deal is real so that the person who is being conned will believe the transaction. They will also study the minds of the would-be victims before executing their plans. Most of the victims are greedy people, who want to get rich quickly. The easiest way to build up a victim’s confidence is to give them a taste of the reward. Many scams begin by letting the victim win something be it money, affection or social acceptance. The victims don’t try to establish whether the deal might be a scam but they just focus on why the offer will give them good rewards. The moment a con artist realises that someone wants a shortcut or an easy way to make money, they strike. They will even take you to that office, and the moment one is in the establishment, they will tend to believe the deal is real. When you are in that office, and you are told that the person you were to see is not there, you are most likely to give out money even without seeing that official. Victims are also people who get to trust strangers very fast. They could also be people who have gotten money before without sweating. These are the people who will be told that there is a deal here, a bribe there and they will go ahead and give out huge amounts without even doing some background checks or getting a private investigator to confirm a few things. In some cases, the big names are not even aware of the deals. Their names are just used behind their backs, mostly by their juniors. Conmanship is very common but we will only get to know a few. There are those incidents that will be kept secret because the deals involved illegal things. For example, if someone promises to supply you with cocaine, you pay them and they fail, you cannot report to the police. Lastly, I would like to point out that conmen have their contacts almost everywhere; in the police service, in hospitals, in courts and government institutions. Jane Mugo, a private investigator, spoke to the Star 