OVER 1000 clubs have been ratified as eligible to take part in the county and national football elections after the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Electoral Board published the final list of those legible to vote in the upcoming repeat elections. This follows the culmination of disputes window on the preliminary register, published on February 6, 2020. Speaking on the current process, the board’s chairperson Kentice Tikolo said: “The board took an early decision to embark on a voter eligibility process to ensure that some of the past issues that bedevilled the elections are resolved at the outset of the process. This will ensure both delegates and candidates are appraised based on their eligibility.” As stipulated in the 2019/2020 Electoral Code, the list consists of 1,014 clubs that have actively participated in the FKF leagues in at least three of the last four consecutive seasons (2016, 2017, 2018, 2018/2019) and are currently active. The voter register consists of clubs that will vote at the national and county level. At the national level, there will be 17 of 18 Kenya Premier League clubs after Sony Sugar were relegated; 10 National Super League clubs and 10 national Division One sides drawn from the two zones in order of the top five per zone. Equally, women’s football will be represented by a total of 5 clubs —three Premier League (three clubs) and two from Division One League. At the county level, all the remaining NSL and Division One clubs not included in the national election have been published. Additionally, clubs participating in the regional and county leagues will be eligible to vote in their respective counties. In the meantime, the deadline for submission of county nomination forms is slated for February 18, according to the electoral calendar issued by the board earlier this month. The board has so far received candidates’ nomination papers from counties. A preliminary list of candidates is expected to be published on Friday after which disputes related to the nomination process will be accepted by the board. National Executive Committee (NEC), as well as presidential aspirants, are expected to submit their nomination papers on Friday and Saturday this week as per the electoral calendar. The final list of national and county candidates will be published on March 3. County elections have been scheduled for March 14 while the national elections will be held on March 27.