Rosslyn Riviera is a neighbourhood mall set in an environment of peaceful greenery in the up-market suburb of Rosslyn. It is situated near the UN in Gigiri and is the brainchild of businessman Peter Gethi, the son of a Moi-era police commissioner, Ben Gethi. Sitting on 4.5 acres, Rosslyn Riviera combines the atmosphere of modern world-class design with the backdrop of nature that takes advantage of a natural river on the property. It is located in the Rosslyn suburb and easily accessible to the residents of Rosslyn, Runda, Muthaiga, Kigwaru, Nyari, the UN complex in Gigiri and Ruaka. It sits on Limuru Road, a major thoroughfare that connects Nairobi city to Limuru, and is traversed by a multicultural mix of residents, corporate executives and business owners. The mall offers lots of amenities to its customers, ranging from shopping, dining, health, wellness and entertainment establishments. During my brief tour at the mall, I was surprised by the number of tenants who have acquired space in the building. These include Chandarana Supermarket, Nairobi Hospital, 360 Degrees Pizza, News Café, Nyumba Cinema, Kenya Christmas Village and the Nairobi Golf Simulator. Kevin Fonda, a mixologist with Mexican-themed eatery Fonda NBO, told the Star, "Roselyn Riviera Mall's location makes it easy for its clientele in the neighbourhood and its surroundings to come and enjoy its hospitality, and they get to sample the best of Mexican cuisine and recipes." Cinemagoers have also not been left behind, as the mall has a special cinema hall, christened Nyumba Cinema, not your ordinary kind of a Cinemax, which seats about 30 people in one session. Santai Kimakeke, a partner who works for Nyumba Cinema, said, "Friends, families and even corporate organisations who want a cool ambience and atmosphere always book this room, which offers a wide range of the best of cinema, ranging from documentaries, blockbusters and even Netflix. "Not everybody spends their leisure time in clubs or public parks, some prefer to while their time here. We charge Sh2,500 per hour on weekdays and Sh4,000 during the weekends, when there is a higher demand. The hall boasts of reclining comfortable leather seats. Drinks and snacks are also served in the house.” Golf lovers also have not been left behind, as a modern-day simulator operated by Nairobi Golf Simulator attracts a sizeable kind of clientele, as representative Patrick Mburu says. "The simulator operates like a golf course and most lovers of the sport always spare their free time to come and perfect their skills on the simulator. The facility serves as a practice and training centre, featuring state-of-the-art club fitting done with industry-leading Foresight GC2 simulator," he said. "The Nairobi Golf Simulator powered by Foresight Sports Europe is a first of its kind in Kenya, East Africa, West and General Africa." Last Christmas season, Rosslyn Riviera Mall offered a unique and authentic Kenya type of Christmas, titled, "The Christmas Village". It was full of live performances, amazing art and great shopping deals with fun and entertainment for the whole family. Free madafu and mahamri were also on offer.