The Nairobi city government has the power to stop – at any point – the construction of a building that is in breach of legal requirements, a court has ruled. The county, Judge John Mativo said last week, did not abuse powers when it revoked the approval given to Cytonn Investments to build a Sh20 billion tower in Kilimani. Developers, the judge said, must adhere to the law throughout the construction process or risk having their approval revoked. He noted that the devolved unit had approved but later revoked the development of the 35-storey tower after Kilimani residents complained there was no public participation and that the building would have a negative impact on them. They said the project is likely to cause heavy traffic snarl-ups, strain the sewerage system and reduce water supply during peak periods. Justice Mativo declined to quash City Hall's decision. “Planning is a continuous process which takes into account new problems. Development permission is granted subject to certain conditions. Even during construction in the event of a breach of the conditions or sub-standard work, enforcement action can be taken,” he said. Cytonn had argued that they had started public consultations for environmental impact assessment with residents, but Kilimani Project Foundation -  the residents' association - "declined to engage and launched a publicity blitz via various outlets to express their objections." Cytonn Towers was to be a mixed-use development with offices, hotel and serviced apartments, residential apartments and a rental podium. In 2017, the county government approved architectural plans in respect of the development subject to set out conditions being met. But in April 2018, the approval was cancelled, prompting the lawsuit. By then, Cytonn said, it had spent more than Sh1 billion on the proposed project. KPF chief officer in charge of urban planning Justus Kathenge said they were concerned that a clean environment and infrastructure outlay would not support the development of the profile and magnitude proposed by the developer. He said the developer had failed to comply with the zoning requirements of Kilimani, a nearby primary school and the health and safety of children at the Cavina School, during and after construction, had not been addressed. Kathenge further noted that the noise level to be generated had not been addressed. The developer had also not demonstrated a clear provision for the removal of waste water. KPF board member Rebecca Karanja said the maximum allowable height for an apartment in the area is four storeys yet the proposed development would comprise 35 storeys (175,000 square feet of office and commercial space for rental, 180 hotel rooms, 160 serviced apartments, three-bedroom duplex apartments and penthouse suites, and four basement parking floors with a capacity for 1,200 to 1,500 parking spaces). “We are reasonably apprehensive that they have no intentions of improving the roads in the area, the sewerage system and all the infrastructure needed, hence, the development will overwhelm the limited infrastructure that is already straining,” she said, Constant Cap, an Urban Planning expert, said the proposed development fell foul of the zonal policies for Kilimani contained in the Nairobi City Development Ordinances. Cap also noted that there will be an irreversible loss of vegetation, lack of privacy and sunlight to many buildings. Judge Mativo asserted that all development control policies must ensure coordination and compatibility of land uses for the improvement of the general welfare of people. “This ultimate goal is achieved through the attainment of corrective action, avoidance of overcrowding, protection of the natural environment, ensuring physical efficiency and cleanliness of settlements, safeguarding life and property, ensuring the harmonious location of land uses, and reduction or avoidance of exposure to pollution,” he noted. Last year, the Nairobi County Assembly’s Planning, Housing and Lands Committee admitted that only a quarter of the city's residential estates are compliant with planning requirements. At the same time, the Nairobi Regeneration Committee team told a parliamentary panel that there were plans to demolish at least 500,000 buildings worth more than Sh500 billion. This followed the collapse of several poorly constructed buildings, killing scores of people. This did not stop the mushrooming of skyscrapers in restricted areas, some with the approval of City Hall.