Members of a parliamentary committee on Wednesday defied Speaker Justin Muturi’s directive against clandestine engagements with witnesses appearing before the House. The Transport committee chaired by Pokot South MP David Pkosing ordered the media, committee clerks, Hansard officers and sergeants-at-arms out of a meeting. The committee then proceeded to hold a closed-door session with officials from the Infrastructure department led by Principal Secretary Paul Maringa. This was after the PS appeared before the committee at Parliament Buildings for discussions on the Budget Policy Statement (BPS) for 2020-21. He was accompanied by the heads of road agencies – Kenya National Highways Authority, Kenya Urban Roads Authority and Kenya Rural Roads Authority. The Kenya Roads Board boss and the Infrastructure departments’ CFO also attended the closed-door session, with attendees remaining tight-lipped on its content. After the BPS presentation - which was open - staff who accompanied the roads bosses for the budget discussion were also asked to leave. The meeting took about 30 minutes. All the while the committee kept Transport PS Esther Koimett waiting with her team from the Transport department. Speaker Muturi, in a ruling on July 26, 2018, declared that it was out of order for MPs to hobnob with witnesses appearing before them. He said members must relate with persons appearing as witnesses before the committees at “arms length”. The rule applies to interactions before witnesses enter meetings, during interrogation and during their exit from meetings. The Speaker directed that members must conduct themselves with the utmost respect while interacting with witnesses, further reiterating that meetings shall not be held without clerks. “In this regard, while appearing before committees, witnesses should be ushered in and escorted out by the secretariat or the Sergeant-at-Arms,” Muturi ruled. To avoid conflict of interest, chairpersons are required to record – prior to the commencement of a meeting - such interests as may be falling in the agenda of the sitting. This was not the case on Wednesday as the members met and continued to hold further discussions with the witnesses along the corridors. They escorted the state officials out of the meeting in total disregard of the directive. While sending away the media and the staff, Pkosing stated that they needed the room to discuss some preliminary amendments to law. It was, however, unclear how such amendments would be factored without clerks taking notes and the same being recorded in the Hansard as House procedures define. When asked about the highly guarded deliberations, a senior official at the Infrastructure department told the Star that “there was nothing untoward". “We frequently deliberate on legislation and policy with the committee before formalising the results,” the official said, without stating whether they were aware of the breach of House Standing Orders. It was under such circumstances that the Public Accounts Committee of the 10th Parliament was disbanded and reconstituted. Similar occurrences were cited during the probe into the import of suspect mercury-laden sugar into the country. A number of lawmakers were fingered for condoning irregularities in the probe which was marred by claims of bribery and conflict of interest. Majority Leader Aden Duale and his Minority counterpart John Mbadi are among leaders who have over time voiced their concerns about such events. Duale earlier said such instances put the integrity of the House at stake. Mbadi warned that some members had converted the sittings into rent-seeking ventures. Edited by R.Wamochie