Sexually provocative dressing will not be allowed in the Embu Assembly. Male servant leaders get hot and bothered. Speaker Josiah Thiriku said appropriate attire means a skirt or trouser suit, shirt, trousers, jacket and tie and formal shoes. Traditional African and Islamic wear is all right The order followed a storm caused by Nominated MCA Judy Mbuya entered the assembly chambers on Friday last week in what some members described as 'sexually provocative and skin-hugging trousers'. Mbuya was ruled out of order by temporary speaker Phillip Nzangi, ordered out of the chambers and told to come back when she dresses decently. During the incident, both male and female MCAs complained that Mbuya was sexually provocative. Mbuya had arrived in skin-tight trousers and a short unisex shirt. She denied her dressing was sexually provocative and inappropriate. Her male colleagues said her body was exposed, making them uncomfortable and asked that she be ejected before Nzangi granted their demands. Thiriku, in the directive read on his behalf by temporary speaker Nathan Mwari, added that decent traditional African dress for both men and women could also be allowed into the assembly, as well as Islamic attire for male MCAs, wearing a jacket. The speaker stated that the precedence was borrowed from a ruling by former National Assembly Speaker Francis ole Kaparo after the dressing of some MPs became questionable. He said the order was expected to end the uproar experienced in the past regarding the dressing of female MCAs. The order also noted that in exceptional cases of extremely hot weather, MCAs would be allowed to wear casual clothes — but only on directions from the Office of the Speaker. Thiriku said members will be assessed by the Serjeant-at-Arms to determine if they are properly dressed and fit to be admitted. The directive also requires hose in the public gallery to respect the dressing standards. Any member of the public deemed to be improperly dressed swill be ejected. The speaker noted that the assembly is an 'august' House that deserved "utmost decorum and will not be struggling to save face after members who ought to conduct themselves honourably dress skimpily or in attire that lowered their dignity". (Edited by V. Graham) 