When Jose Mourinho joined Tottenham Hotspurs in the immediate aftermath of the sacking of Mauricio Pochettino, it raised the hopes of many Kenyans. Finally, it was felt, their national team skipper Victor Wanyama would get regular playing time at Spurs after being frozen out by Pochettino. After all, Mourinho had worked with his brother McDonald Mariga at Inter Milan, winning the UEFA Champions League together in 2010. He knew the quality of Mariga, he would definitely see similar characteristics in Wanyama. Alas, that was not to be. Over a month into Mourinho’s reign, Wanyama’s future has looked even bleaker. While he would occasionally be named on the bench for Premier League and UEFA Champions League matches under the sacked Argentine, Mourinho has yet to include Wanyama in his matchday squad in the EPL. In fact, Wanyama has played only three times this season, once in the Champions League and two times in the EPL, all those matches coming in as a substitute. Now with the clock ticking towards the end of the January transfer window, Wanyama’s future is again subject to speculation. A move to Belgium has been mooted, with reports suggesting that Club Brugge would gladly welcome him. But by the end of the transfer window on Friday, no serious bid had been made for Wanyama. A way out was sought via a loan deal with Amiens or Leganes, but they failed to agree on terms with Spurs, while Celtic ruled out a return due to Wanyama's wage demands. And thus, he remains doomed to the bench until the end of the season. HARD FAREWELL Whether the Harambee Stars captain is willing to leave the prestige and riches of the English Premier League in search of playing time is another matter altogether. Former Harambee Stars coach Jacob Ghost Mulee says the writing is on the wall for Wanyama. “Mourinho has not used him since he came to the club. I think Victor should take a proper look at what he wants as a footballer and make a decision. But clearly, everyone can see that his time at Tottenham is up and it is now time to decide about his future,” he said. The Kenyan, at 28, is at the peak of his powers. Sitting on the bench at this moment in his career is not an option. While he earns good money at Spurs, £3,380,000 (Sh436 million) annually, according to spotrac, it is not beyond some Belgian clubs to pay these sums, not least one (like Brugge) that features regularly in the Champions League and has in their ranks a former EPL player and UEFA Champions League winner in goalkeeper Simon Mignolet. The ‘Lion of Muthurwa’, known for his fearlessness on the pitch, must now swallow his pride and accept that staying a day longer at Spurs and training without featuring in matchday squads is not for his ilk. Former Harambee Stars striker and coach James Nandwa, who like Wanyama featured in the African cup of Nations, said, “I don't think it is an issue of money that is making Wanyama not to want to move elsewhere. I think he is probably waiting for an ideal team in a good league to come calling, but my advice would be that he should jump before he is pushed.” He must seek audience with Mourinho and seek guarantees from the unflappable Portuguese. If nothing positive and concrete is assured at Spurs, he and his agent Ivan Modia should consider all the offers that are bound to come their way. Wanyama does not deserve what he is getting right now. Should such a move materialise, it will be good for Victor and the national team, who need their skipper match-fit when the Fifa World Cup qualifiers start in October. Former Stars defender and current Posta Rangers coach Sammy Omollo said, “Every player wants to get the opportunity to play and currently, Mugubi is not getting the playing time he needs." Adding, "For the national team, Wanyama is important for our objectives and ambitions of the club. The whole team looks up to him for leadership, so he should be able to perform well in every match he features in. We have the Afcon qualifiers and the World Cup qualifiers this year, and the country needs a fit Wanyama to lead the Stars. If he does not play regularly, then the coaches would have no choice but to replace him in the team.” Kenya has been drawn in a fair Group E with regional rivals Uganda and Rwanda as well as Mali standing in their path to the next round, which will determine who qualifies for the 2022 World Cup in Qatar. The qualification rounds begin in October, by which time Wanyama's future will be clearer.