It was all joy in the slums of Kisumu county when Education CS  George Magoha came to the rescue of pupils who had not joined Form 1 due to lack of school fees. In Nyalenda, Kowino market, Lauren Amondi could not hide her joy when the CS accompanied by county top police bosses came to their doorstep to ensure she joined school on Wednesday. Amondi who sat her KCPE at St Mark Nyabera Primary School and scored 192 marks was taken to Kasagam Secondary School and admitted immediately. “It's such a good feeling to be in school. Being in this school uniform means a lot to me,” she told the Star. She was among 10 students who were identified on Wednesday, adding to another 36 found on Tuesday by the education officials. The residents of Nyalenda, Kanyakwar village and Kassagam praised the government for intervening. Magoha announced that 99 per cent of the transition rate had been attained so far while promising that the remaining learners will be taken to various secondary schools. The government is looking for 10,000 students who are scattered across Narok, Kajiado, Embu, Nyandarua and Tana River counties and are yet to report to school, Magoha. In Nyanza, only about 200 pupils have not joined secondary school. “Everybody from where they are operating must continue to identify where the children are between on Wednesday and Friday before the exercise is closed," the CS said. He urged communities to support needy children get admitted in public secondary schools “As the government gives Sh22,500 per child for free day secondary education, those who can afford to offer help should not shy from doing so. I have heard Kisumu MPs are offering the students free uniforms," the CS said. He appealed to members of the community to contact any government official when they see students out of school. The CS further assured of plans to expand the schools infrastructure to accommodate the high enrollments. “No child will be sitting under a tree, the government is ready, able and willing to do whatever is necessary," he said, adding that this should be a community effort. However, Magoha noted, that they have learned from this process and next year, the admission process will be done differently. Edited by R.Wamochie