The 2017 world under-18 1500m silver medalist Edinah Jebitok and world under-18 3,000m champion Zena Chemutai will lead a contingent of World Under 20 Championships probables in the junior women's  6km race at the Athletics Kenya National Cross Country Championships/trials set for Saturday at Ngong Race Course, Nairobi. While Jebitok and Chemutai battle for honours in the girls' race for South Rift, Jacob Krop of North Rift and Jackson Kavesa of Southern and Shadrack Kipchirchir of Central Rift will be the runners to watch in the boys' category. AK will use the rescheduled event, initially set for Uhuru gardens last weekend, to select a team to the Africa Cross Country Championships set for Lome, Togo on April 8. The event was shelved in honour of the late President Danial Toroitich arap Moi, who was buried yesterday at his home in Kabarak, Nakuru County The event also serves as a training ground for athletes angling to represent the country at not only the World U20 championships but also the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan. Jebitok and Chemutai will battle it out with the likes of North Rift's Winnie Kimutai, Diana Kipserem and Mercy Cherop, Central Rift's Agnes Jebet, Beatrice Kandie, Josephine Wanjiku, Jackline Kangori and Mercy Jepkoech. Nairobi will have the likes of Triza Cherotich, Ann Naasisho, Mercy Chepkorir and Sheila Cherotich while Esther Wambui anchors Central Region U20 women's team that has Margaret Akidor and Caroline Kariba. Central Rift, North Rift, South Rift and Southern Region are expected, going by the level of their individual events, to dominate the boys' 8km race. Alongside Kipchirchir, Central Rift are also banking on Gideon Rono and Emmanuel Kiplagat while North Rift will try to complicate matters through the likes of Krop, Bravin Kosgei, Bernard Kipkirui and Felix Kori. South Rift will bank on the experience of Kiprono Sitonik and Victor Korir while  Jackson Kavesa will lead Southern Region’s sextet alongside Erick Nyambane and Nickson Lesiyia. Joseph Waweru headlines the Nairobi team after winning the regional championships two weeks ago. He will have company the company of Victor Chepkwony, a training mate of world 1500m champion Timothy Cheruiyot and his predecessor Elijah Manangoi at Rongai Athletics Club. AK Youth Development Committee chairman Barnaba Korir said the event could not have come at a better time since it will help them gauge most of the athletes from the 14 World U20 championships camps ahead of the global show set for Nairobi between July 7 and 12 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. “It’s great to see many runners who are part of AK WU20 camps across the country making their respective teams," said Korir. "We will continue to monitor their performance throughout. We also hope to continue with this programme beyond the World Under-20 championships since it forms a good breeding ground for morally upright youngsters." 