With their hopes of clinching the Kenyan Premier League fading fast, Sofapaka have laid bare their intentions to win the remaining four Betway Shield Cup knockout matches as they seek a ticket to continental football. Sofapaka’s mettle to marshal their way to the Caf Confederations will be severely tested by defending champions Bandari when the two lock horns in the round of 16 next month. Sofapaka coach John Baraza has challenged his players to take the remaining matches as finals to smother their hunger for continental football. The club  will be gunning for their fourth title having won the cup in 2007, 2010 and 2014 Baraza, a winner of the cup with the club in 2014, said they will not settle for anything less than the title this year as victory will guarantee them a place in Caf matches. Baraza, who guided the club to dump Balaji 5-4 on post-match penalties in the round of 32, termed the Bandari clash as a perfect test to their quest and warned them to brace up for a gruelling encounter. “This is a shortcut for us to break the long absence from Caf matches. "Between us and the feat, there are four knockout matches which we have resolved to take as finals. "We face holders in the next round and I think this will provide an indicator of our readiness to win the cup. "We are anticipating a tough match as Bandari will also be aiming to retain the cup but I think I have an experienced squad which will carry the day,” said the former Kenyan international. In the meantime, Baraza is crossing fingers over the availability of his skipper and first-choice right-back George Maelo for the remaining matches. The towering defender, who is also a General Service Unit officer, has been on and off, thanks to official commitments but Baraza is hoping he will be available. “We would wish to have him in the knockout matches as he brings maturity in the backline and leadership too. He has been held up lately but the advantage is  that he trains with us and we hope he will avail himself for the matches,” he said In the absence of Maelo, Sofapaka have been relying on the services of Sammy Imbuye, a natural winger and Baraza feels the player has punched above his weight in the matches he been deployed as a defender. “Imbuye has been a revelation at the full-back right in the days Maelo has been away. I have had a word with him and he enjoys defending even though he is not a defender. He is young, disciplined and energetic and I think the future is bright for him,” added the four-time KPL ‘golden boot’ winner