Court of Appeal judge Sankale ole Kantai was arrested Friday for alleged interference in Dutch businessman Tob Cohen's murder case. He was taken to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations headquarters on Kiambu Road for questioning. Who is Justice Sankale? Sankale Ole Kantai joined the Judiciary eight years ago. Two years prior to his appointment to the Court of Appeal he served as a judge to the Interim Independent Constitutional Dispute Resolution Court (IICDRC). He was appointed by former president Mwai Kibaki. As Appeal Court judge he has delivered several landmark decisions. He was part of the bench that ruled that persons investigated for corruption have a right of notice of the action intended against them. Together with justices Roselyne Nambuye and Patrick Kiage they held that the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has no right to deny persons of interest the right of notice before investigating their bank accounts. The judgment was made on June 28 last year. In 2010 he was also part of a five-judge bench that allowed inmates eligible to vote to be able to do so. The bench declared that Section 43 of the Constitution does not in any way exclude inmates who are over 18 of sound mind and who have not committed an electoral offence from voting in a referendum. They directed the Interim Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to gazette the prisons as polling stations. IIEBC was also ordered to facilitate the registration of all eligible inmates within 21 days to enable those who wish to vote in a referendum to do so. Last month, Sankale was part of a bench that upheld a Sh1 million payout to a woman sacked five years ago by Chandarana Supermarket for filing a sexual harassment complaint. Judges Roselyn Nambuye, Wanjiru Karanja and Sankale ruled that Cathie Akinyi deserved the compensation from her former employer. Sankale was also part of the Appellate court bench that ordered former Kiambu Governor to pay Sh100 million for land alleged to have been grabbed in Westlands. He was also among the judges who, in 2015, ruled that TSC should raise teachers' basic salary by 50 to 60 per cent. During a 2018 Embu election petition case, he disqualified himself from hearing on allegation one of the parties tried to compromise him. He went to Oloolaiser Secondary School and later studied at the University of Nairobi