 The Gertrude's Children's Hospital is demanding a Sh7 million deposit to release a 13-year-old boy detained over a Sh15 million bill. Brian Kimani was admitted to the hospital in September last year following complications developed after a bone marrow transplant in India. He was suffering from Leukaemia. His father, Steven Kimani, said the boy developed Graft versus host disease (GvHD), a condition that occurs when donor bone marrow or stem cells attack the recipient. “The donated bone marrow treats the recipient's body as foreign and the donated cells/bone marrow attack the body,” Kimani told the Star on Sunday. He is appealing to well-wishers to come to the rescue of his son who remains detained in hospital. Gertrude's is demanding the deposit be paid by March 9 before they can negotiate the mode of payment for the balance. Steven said his family was unable to raise the cash given they had already spent Sh15 million in previous treatment both locally and in India. "We had two fundraisers and collected Sh7.6 million and Sh6.1 million respectively. The funds catered for bills accrued from the first time he was diagnosed at Kijabe Hospital until the day he was treated in India,” Patrick Kinyanjui, a family friend said on the on phone. Kinyanjui is in charge of raising funds to secure Brian's release. The teenager called for help, saying it was painful to remain detained in hospital. "All I do all day is sit here and stare at the empty room and walls. It is really depressing. I wish I could go home," Brian told the Star. His father is a small-scale oil trader while the mother Maryanne Wanjiku, is unemployed. A small note from the hospital dated January 31, and signed by Robert Ombae detailed a payment plan to be done in two installments. The hospital wanted at least Sh200,000 by February but the parents only managed to pay Sh40,000. The hospital's management said they could not comment on the matter, citing doctor-patient confidentiality but asked the family to provide the security for the debt and payment plans. The family has set up a paybill number 763563 and account number 1234094266 KCB Gigiri to help us raise the funds. Brian is a Standard 7 pupil at Jabali Preparatory School in Ruaka. He was diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia or blood cancer in 2018. He was treated at Kijabe Hospital, Kenyatta National Hospital and Gertrude's Hospital before being flown to India for a bone marrow transplant.