The national government plans to rescue and rehabilitate street families and help them lead normal lives. Alex Masibo, a board member of Trustee Street Families Rehabilitation Trust Funds, said on Friday that collection of public views is underway and will assist in the national policy formulation. "We have been meeting stakeholders to ensure we compile the exact data of what is happening on the ground," he said. So far, the board has started with 19 counties as a sample for data finding, majorly looking at the socioeconomic factors leading people to the streets. He said the number of street families has become alarming but they aim to end street life. "The situation is very critical but we are going to make sure we achieve a street family-free nation,"  Masibo said during an interview at the probation office in Kwale headquarters in Matuga subcounty. The policy will aid in the regulation of the issues of restoration, reintegration and socialisation of street families. Masibo said they will include more people through public participation to ensure interventions are well-coordinated and structured. They will not pursue forced removal from the streets but instead initiate a smooth operation and legalised procedures. "When the policy has been validated by the government, no harassment or crackdowns to evacuate the homeless group will be made but through proper interventions and rules outlined by the Constitution." Rehabilitation facilities will only be used temporarily depending on what the policy will conclude. The board member said the displaced children and grown-ups shall then be assisted in tracing back their families. In the Coast region, the committee has held meetings in Mombasa, Kilifi, Kwale among other areas. Kwale county coordinator in the Children's Services department Stephen Gitau blamed drug and substance abuse, poverty and teenage parenthood for the increasing number of street families. He said most youths taking drugs and young mothers who are financially unstable end up in streets after failing to get enough support.