Security has been restored in Mbwajumwali, a village in Lamu East infamous for drugs and violence where tens of security officers and civilians have been killed. The government established a police post as directed by Coast regional coordinator John Elungata shortly after the brutal murder of two chiefs in the village in December last year. Mbwajumwali location chief Mohamed Famau, 45, and Myabogi sub-location assistant chief Athman Shee, 43, were murdered in their office by unknown assailants at midday on December 11. The two were accosted by two attackers who were wearing buibuis, an Islamic clothing for women, and had their faces covered with veils. The assailants slashed the administrators to death in the daring attack never witnessed before in the region. Mbwajumwali village has for the longest time been on the police radar as a notorious drug area. Armed criminal gangs are ready to protect their trade at all costs. Police officers, chiefs and other administrators who have been consistent in pursuing the gangs have found themselves staring at death even as they strive to rid Lamu of drugs. Locals who suspected of snitching on the gangs and the drug dealers for the police have been targeted too. On October 5 last year, police constable Hesbon Okemwa Anunda, an astute officer who had dedicated himself to flushing out drug dealers in Mbwajumwali, was lured to his death by a phone call asking him to come and arrest a drug dealer only for him to be ambushed and murdered. His mutilated body was discovered three days later in a forest in the area after the officer was reported missing from his duty post at Tchundwa police post in Lamu East. The officer’s G3 rifle loaded with 60 rounds of ammunition has never been located. On June 10, 2016, Mbwajumwali chief Mohamed Shee was attacked and slashed to death by unknown assailants as he headed to work around 9am. The chief was known for his relentless crackdown on drugs in the area. However the move to establish a police post in the village seems to have worked as not a single attack has been reported for the last one-and-half months it has been operational. Locals have also attested to the improved security and reduced crime since the establishment of the post. Omar Yusuf said initially, machete-wielding gangs would roam freely and attack and rob people at will but that has since stopped since the post came up. The police post is backed by frequent patrols that have also made it impossible for the gangs to operate. “It was unheard of for someone not to be robbed in this area by a machete gang in a week. It’s been almost two months and we have had no incident. That means the idea of establishing a police post has worked. We can now walk around and feel safe. It was never like this,” Yusuf said. Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia said the government was still committed to the war on drugs in Lamu and urged locals to cooperate with the police.