A lawyer has filed an urgent suit to have 41 judges recommended by the Judicial Service Commission to take oath after the President failed to appoint them. Adrian Kimotho says in the event the AG fails to publish, then the names be published by the JSC within three days in any newspaper of nationwide circulation. Kamotho wants the chief registrar of the Judiciary to administer the oath of affirmation of office once the names are published. Also sought is an order directing the Controller of Budget to approve the withdrawal of funds from the Consolidated Fund to facilitate their assumption of office. On February 6 a three-bench judge ruled that the delay by President Uhuru Kenyatta in appointing the 41 judges was unconstitutional. The judges Lydia Achode, Chacha Mwita and James Makau said Uhuru is constitutionally bound by the recommendation of JSC on persons to be appointed. The court determined that the appointment of judges by the President, should be immediate and as soon as the recommendations are forwarded to him by the JSC. The court further held that the reasonable time contemplated by the Constitution is 14 days from the date recommendations are forwarded. Noting that the appointments should have been gazetted on February, 20, Kamotho said the AG's conduct towards the court was in bad faith. "... and his action is designed to exasperate the Judiciary and to further fuel the fabricated narrative that the judiciary is the weakest link in the administration of Justice," he said. Kamotho says the public stands to suffer irreparably unless the AG's unlawful conduct is contained by the court. He claims that the AG has up to date deliberately and willfully failed to comply with the orders of the court. “I am aware that the AG has filed a notice of appeal expressing an intention to challenge the judgement by the court on February 6. But there is no known order of a competent court or any authority suspending, reviewing or in any manner setting aside the judgement rendered on February 6,” he says. The vacancies are in the court of appeal, environment land, employment and labour relations court.