The BBI task force has embarked on another round of collecting views from the public before writing the final report. This week,  ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Wiper Democratic Movement counterpart Kalonzo Musyoka appeared before the task force at the KICC. Here is a recap of what they said. MUSALIA MUDAVADI BBI should seek to solve the fatigue associated with the culture of setting up commissions whose reports are never implemented. TJRC, IRC, Commission of Inquiry into the illegal land, Report on Judicial Commission of Inquiry into tribal clashes, Report by Parliamentary Select Committee to investigate Ethnic Clashes in Western and Commission of Inquiry into post-election violence must be implemented to solve some of the challenges. The public, through the BBI, should be able to hold its leaders accountable. Although the BBI conversation is partly a result of the quest for electoral justice, no effort has been made to revamp IEBC to make it strong and truly independent. IEBC lacks the capacity and necessary autonomy to run its affairs as an independent body. The IEBC, with regards to solving electoral injustice, must be fully funded to ensure it performs its constitutional obligations. The commission should be held accountable on its mandate especially of continuous voter registration and civic education. Peace and Cohesion Mudavadi maintained that durable peace does not come automatically but is a product of social, economic, cultural, political, environmental and religious justice. For this to be achieved, the BBI should deal with impunity in which the rule has collapsed and people have become a law unto themselves without the restraining fear of consequences. "The BBI must address democracy deficit by ensuring that we do not build one bridge as we destroy others." The BBI should seek to ensure that as a country, Kenyans forget their painful past and use the lessons learnt to build a stronger future for all. Economy The government should review whether the economy is working for Kenyans. There needs to be a critical analysis of whether the current economy has created jobs for the youth, encouraged the farmer or whether it is fair to the common mwanachi. "There should be an establishment of an independent Public Debt Management Authority with a clear objective and functions chief of which shall be managing public debt at national and county government levels," he said. There should be strategies for expanding the tax base to be commensurate with the growth of the economy and address the ease of doing business to grow the economy on a continuous basis. "One of the main threats to an economy that works for all is corruption. The BBI should ensure adequate funding to the Judiciary and investigate offices and office of the prosecutor." There should be random and continuous lifestyle audits for public officers and asset recovery mechanism should go for the seizure of unexplained wealth in relation to wealth declaration and returns filed. Youth employment The government, through BBI, should enhance its programme of attachment and internship policy through the national industrial training authority to prepare the youth for the job market. "The government should initiate partnerships with the private sector to maximise the opportunities for youth through deliberate incentives.'' Governance The structure of the executive arm of government must uphold and respect the principle of one person- one- vote. ANC opposes any attempts to create multiple, conflicting or ambiguous centres of state authority. The head of state must also be the head of government and Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces, an authority that must not be shared or opened to multiple interpretations. "We support BBI recommendations for the establishment of national executive structure in which the executive comprises of a president, a deputy president, a prime minister who is appointed by the president's party subject to approval by Parliament." There should be an office of the official leader of the opposition with a shadow cabinet, corresponding to the official cabinet and funded by the national exchequer. KALONZO MUSYOKA Wiper seeks to contribute to on-going public discourse on the possibility of a constitutional referendum alongside amendments to various legislations. Ethnic antagonism and competition Ethnic antagonism and competition have been some of the roots of the country's problems. These problems date back to the period of transition from colonial to the post-colonial era where prosperity was wrongly pegged on a particular ethnic community exercising full governing authority over the nation. To mitigate this, there must be a national day for the celebration of cultural diversity in the form of a huge carnival to showcase unity in diversity. “This will also serve as a major tourist attraction both locally and internationally that can impact positively on the economy.  Furthermore, it will also instil patriotism and improve on the people’s economic, social and cultural status.” Inclusivity Inclusivity is an integral part of bringing healing to the wounds that have scarred this country for the past 56 years since independence. The government and governance thereof are vested in the trust of its citizens and that representation of the different tribes of Kenya is a social responsibility. “We must, however, be careful not to prioritise inclusivity over the public wage bill which is already more than the country can bear. Furthermore, inclusivity should not bring about duplication of roles within government rendering some offices functionally redundant as we have experienced in the past." He supported the BBI recommendation on an executive that comprises the president, deputy president and a prime minister appointed by the president and be approved by Parliament. The Prime minister should be deputised by two deputies. “In light of the above illustration, WDM-K proposes that Article 132 of the Constitution remains intact save for Article 132(2) whereby the power to remove the Prime Minister and his two deputies is vested in Parliament through a 2/3 majority vote.” Divisive elections and electoral reforms Elections in Kenya have always resulted in high tension and extreme violence as was experienced in 2007. The credibility of party nominations has also been affected due to violence resulting in extreme injuries and even death as was experienced in Migori County gubernatorial nominations in 2017. The framework for elections does not fully entrench the ideals of democracy. “Competitive democracy is healthy for a nation if it is founded on ideals and future promises of how the lives of the people will be improved. It is, therefore, necessary to have a robust opposition in order to keep the government in check and remind it of the promises it made.” Another challenge experienced on the day of elections is the strenuous process for the collation of results for seven streams of elections. As a result, it is difficult to determine the accuracy of the results released in addition to the fact that the process is susceptible to manipulation. “To address these there should be an immediate overall of IEBC as currently constituted. Parties should be given full access to scrutinise the IEBC processes before and during elections and all parliamentary parties should receive funding from the Political Parties Fund.” Referendum In order to affect some of these changes which touch on protected clauses of the constitution, the BBI task force should propose a referendum question before the end of June 2020. WAFULA CHEBUKATI [Chebukati did not appear before the task force. Instead, he sent a memorandum in which he opposed the recommendations by the BBI task force seeking to have political parties choose the commission's chairperson.] Allowing political parties to exclusively nominate the commission's chairperson and commissioners will severely compromise the independence of the commission contrary to the spirit of Article 249(2)(b) of the Constitution, given the competitive nature and ethnic polarisation of the Kenyan election. (The BBI task force in its recommendations had said a mechanism should be devised to give MPs a role in the recruitment of commissioners of IEBC. In nominating candidates to be commissioners, the task force said politicians should nominate individuals who are non-partisan with a record of accomplishment and integrity and who are not known political supporters or activists of the party.) Political parties are loyalty-based institutions and are unlikely to have non-partisan individuals in its membership. Members' action may be motivated by political interests contrary to Article 88 of the Constitution of Kenya. Moreover, non-parliamentary parties and independent candidates will have no say in the recruitment process of the chairperson and commissioners, thus denting the credibility of the commission." The current expert model in the appointment of the chairperson should be maintained as this will ensure the recruitment of professionals and not political appointees to manage the elections. It is worth noting that since the advent of multi-party democracy in 1992 there has been persistent disbandment of the electoral management body and its leadership occasioned by negative ethnicity leading to divisive and highly contested elections. This has made the electoral body a convenient target for blame and disbandment leading to institutional stability and inadequate preparedness for subsequent general elections. The main root cause has never been adequately addressed, but instead symptomatic treatments such as disbandment of the commission and its leadership have been routinely undertaken which has not resulted in a lasting solution. Though the task force said divisive elections are the result with such enormous political pressure applied to IEBC that is certain to be judged a failure by one side or the other, appropriate recommendations should be made to address the identified challenges. Unfortunately, the task force rather recommends putting the blame on IEBC and calling for its disbandment, a practice that has become a tradition in the country after every election. The perception of a lack of faith in the commission is a narrative aimed at diverting attention from the perpetual divisive elections and antagonism. The independence, credibility and legitimacy of the commission get eroded by the continuous, sustained negative campaigns often on suspicions and unfounded grounds. IEBC requires support from all stakeholders towards the improvement of its legal and operational policies and procedures that will ensure the accomplishment of its statutory mandate. Calls by the BBI task force to go to the 2022 election with a clean commission will greatly undermine human resource practices of capacity building and institutional memory. The recommendations are ill-advised and do not strengthen and enhance faith in the commission." •••• Others who made their submissions included the Central Organisation for Trade Union, Kenya National Commission on Human Rights, Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board, women senators and political parties. While Cotu called for the scrapping of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission, KMPDU wanted the establishment of a health commission to fast-track inquiry into health-related issues.