The late singer Papa Dennis will be laid to rest next week on Wednesday. The award-winning gospel star was found dead near Jubilee Headquarters in Pangani after he fell from the seventh floor of a building on Saturday last week. Burial arrangements are underway and a committee is meeting in Nairobi along Biashara Street at Country Cooking Hotel, next to Yala Towers. The team meets every day from 6-9pm to fundraise for the burial. Gospel singer Ringtone is the chairman. Nairobi Records CEO Mash Mjukuu said ahead of the burial, there will be a memorial service at Nairobi chapel in Ngong' road on Monday from 1-4pm. "His body will later on that day be transferred to Matunda, Kakamega county. On Tuesday, there will be a public viewing of the body at his home in Matunda town. On Tuesday night, there will be another service conducted by Kenyan artistes," Mash said. Many artistes have come out in support of Papa Dennis' burial arrangements. "We need to put something together and support the family at this time and give Papa Dennis a decent send-off. Any amount is welcome," Mash said. To contribute, use Paybill number 7029669, Account Number: Your Name Speculation has been rife about what led Papa Dennis to his death, with some blaming his downfall and tribulations on being kicked out of Maliza Umaskini, a record label owned by business mogul Sadat Muhindi. Daddy Owen said with Papa out of Maliza Umaskini, he couldn’t keep up with the life of opulence he once enjoyed, and as such, he fell into depression as his financial problems hit hard. A post-mortem exam was conducted by Dr Josph Ngung’u on Monday, revealing that Papa Dennis died as a result of deceleration (a traumatic injury to the brain, typically following an acceleration injury to the brain in a high-speed situation, such as a motor vehicle accident or high-impact sports). The postmortem report could not tell whether the cause was suicidal or homicide. Samples were taken to the government chemist to test and determine whether he was under the influence of any substance as DCI continues with the investigations.