Good morning, Of all the many stories told about the life of President Daniel arap Moi, none is more egregious than that which alleged he was implicated in the murder of Dr Robert Ouko. Of this I am quite certain: it wasn’t Moi, Martin Minns speaks. Here are the stories making headlines in the Star today. The political divisions in Dr Robert Ouko’s constituency also ran through his family. In the 1988 election campaign, Joab Omino’s supporters spread the story that Dr Ouko had not helped his brother Barrack Mbajah get the government job he wanted.  In his ‘Final Report’, New Scotland Yard detective John Troon came up with a theory "that something happened", a "row" of some sort, during President Daniel Moi’s trip to Washington two weeks before Dr Robert Ouko was killed, which might have provided a motive for his murder. President Moi, together with 83 ministers and civil servants, left Nairobi on January 27, 1990, for Washington, DC, via London for a ‘prayer breakfast’. It was hosted by President George H.W. Bush and attended by three other African heads of state and 3,800 delegates from around the world. Former Sports CS Rashid Echesa's arrest and arraignment over fraud has people talking nonstop, even as he claims dirty politics is behind his woes. His supporters claim his arrest is a ploy to get at Deputy President William Ruto and finish him politically. But is it? We might never know. The name Cambridge Analytica popped in Kenya a year ahead of the 2017 elections with reports that Uhuru Kenyatta's Jubilee Party had hired the firm. Its association with the Donald Trump campaign and Brexit had also just cropped up following an exposé by international media through whistleblower Christopher Wylie. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission is faced with a monumental and politically touchy task of reviewing constituency boundaries next month. The number of constituencies is set at 290 and the IEBC cannot reduce the number but it can propose newer constituencies and mergers — sensitive issues. It also can change the number of wards from the current 1,450 — another sensitive issue.