Hundreds of military officers and police have been deployed in a steel-like cordon around Kabarak and along all roads in the region ahead of retired President Daniel Moi's burial on Wednesday. Preparations for the burial were finalised at his Kabarak home as hundreds of residents from the Rift Valley region prepared to travel for the burial. The government and counties have provided buses that will ferry representatives from the counties to the burial. Governors in the region described Moi as a great son of the region and the country deserving of a great send-off. “We are prepared along with our people to give Moi a good send-off because he was our president, a great statesman, a pan Africanist and an elder. His record in all areas will remain unmatched for many years to come,” Nandi's Stephen Sang said. On Tuesday, most residents monitored on TV the funeral service at Nyayo Stadium in Nairobi. However, residents of Baringo complained that they had not been given a chance to view Moi’s body before the burial. “We had hoped that the body would be bought to Kabarnet so we might see him for the last time but we understand it’s a state funeral and things didn’t work for us. We are proud that he served us for a long time as Baringo Central MP and we pray for his soul,” Benjamin Kiplagat said. However, elders said their customs do not allow the body of a dead person to spend a night at his or her home. The funeral is expected to attract more than 30,000 people to Kabarak High School grounds. Tents were erected at the school as tens of bulls were slaughtered and tonnes of food and drink ferried to Kabarak for the mourners. “We have finalised all preparations and everything is in order ahead of the burial,” George Natembaye, Rift regional coordinator, said. Several schools and other institutions had been prepared for vehicle parking and helicopters that will ferry guests to Kabarak. All other activities have been at a standstill since Moi died. Eldoret elder David Chepsiror, who was a friend to Moi, said the mood in the county clearly indicated how Kenyan's loved and respected Moi. Moi’s body will be flown to the Kabarak airstrip that is on his farm before it is wheeled to the school for the service. The state has also erected large screens in Nakuru and Kabarnet where residents will follow proceedings. Edited by R.Wamochie