Fish farmers in Embu are set to benefit from a share of Sh14 billion set aside by the national government through the Aquaculture Business Development Programme to revive the sector in the county. There are only 1,600 fish farmers in Embu county producing 40 tonnes of fish annually. However, the programme targets to increase the number of fish farmers to more than 10,000 in the county. "Aquaculture Business Development Programme targets 1,788 households and 10,728 persons," Grace Njagi, an aquaculture specialist, said. The programme will use public and private sector channels to strengthen the aquaculture value chains as it seeks to promote good nutrition and food security, environmental sustainability and adaptation to climate change. In addition, it will support the small-scale producers, with priority being women and youth, by promoting viable enterprises for production and value-addition Embu government is, therefore, partnering with the Ministry of Agriculture through the ABDP to increase fish production in the region. The programme further focuses on promoting fish trade in the region by increasing the volume and value of fish and fish products. Other counties benefiting from the programme include Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Meru, Tharaka Nithi , Kiambu, Machakos and Kajiado. Kakamega, Homa Bay, Migori, Busia, Siaya, Kisumu and Kisii counties are also set to benefit from the programme. While speaking at a farmer’s seminar in a hotel in Embu, Justin Ireri, the county Fisheries Technical officer, said there has been a challenge in marketing the fish produced in the region. "Earlier, there was an Economic Stimulus Project that focused on production. This current project focuses on both production and marketing," Ireri said. Tilapia, catfish and trout are among fish species farmed in Embu. "Most farmers take their fish for processing in other counties," he said. The county Fisheries technical officer urged Embu residents to venture into serious fish farming. "There is a permanent deficit of fish and fish products in the county and the country at large. However, there is a ready market and this is a venture that can fetch big money," he said. Agriculture and Fisheries department will fund fish farming and identify markets for farmers through the Aquaculture Business Development Programme. Livestock and Fisheries chief officer Alvan Gatumu said the programme seeks to reduce poverty, increase food security and nutrition in rural communities Gatumu said fish farmers will be equipped with necessary information and resources through training and capacity building, including setting up of trials, demonstrations, field days and exhibitions in collaboration with service providers and partners.