The Intergovernmental Authority on Development has called for the resolution of outstanding internal divisions in South Sudan for peace to hold in the youngest African state. Welcoming the formation of the revitalised Transition Government of National Unity, Igad said the internal frictions and divisions in some of the parties in the peace process have caused unnecessary distraction in the pre-transitional period and if it persists, will disrupt the implementation of transitional tasks. “… it is high time that these parties now overcome their internal differences and wrangles for the sake of peace. The people of South Sudan deserve to see harmony within the parties. It is not possible for a party that is not in peace within itself to be at peace with others. The parties should turn a new page as South Sudan ushers in the transitional period,” Igad said in a statement on Saturday. This came shortly after rebel leader Riek Machar was sworn in as the First Vice President of South Sudan, alongside three other vice presidents on Saturday, the deadline to form the new unity government. The other three are Second Vice President James Igga, Third Vice President Taban Deng and Fourth Vice President Rebecca Garang, the widow of the late Dr. John Garang. Igad also called on the stakeholders of the peace agreement and the people of South Sudan to play a more proactive role as the peace process should be people-centered and people-driven. “In this regard, the R-TGoNU (unity government) has the responsibility to ensure that a conducive and favourable environment for free and active participation of civil society is created. The R-TGoNU and civil society should also work closely for women and the youth to be capacitated and empowered, and particularly that the 35 per cent quota for women stipulated in the R-ARCSS is observed and respected,” the statement added. The Horn of Africa organisation, however, said it is committed to continue providing and mobilising the necessary political, technical and material support in the quest for peace, stability and nation-building in South Sudan. “The recently concluded 70th Extraordinary IGAD Council of Ministers meeting and the 34th Extraordinary IGAD Heads of State and Government Summit held in Addis Ababa has been instrumental in unlocking some of the most contentious issues, particularly related to the number of states and transitional security arrangements,” Igad said. It also called for the upholding of the tenets of democracy and rule of law in the transition period to create the environment necessary for South Sudan to advance and prosper in nation building. “In this journey, we call upon regional and international partners to redouble their efforts in supporting the visions and aspirations of the people of South Sudan.” Igad thanked the regional and international community for the support they have provided to the South Sudan peace process thus far. “In particular, Igad member states, AU and the UN as well as EU, Troika, China, Japan, IPF, South Africa, Ethiopia, Sudan, Nigeria, and Egypt and Uganda. Their technical, financial and material support has been vital in the implementation of the peace agreement.” African Union chairperson Moussa Faki also called for strongly calls for the faithful implementation of the Revitalized Agreement on the Resolution of the Conflict in South Sudan signed in 2018, in its letter and spirit. “Most importantly, the chairperson notes that the formation of this unity government is only an initial step towards the more challenging reform processes that will require steadfast, collegiate and transparent leadership to deliver on the legitimate expectations for peace of the South Sudanese populations,” Faki said in a statement on Saturday.