Who is spearheading massive staff changes in the Ministry of Health at a time of transition and why?  Sources whispered to Corridors that there is disquiet at Afya House over the looming changes, which some insiders claim are politically motivated. There are also reports of a plan to quickly confirm all CEOs under the ministry. President Uhuru Kenyatta’s man Mutahi Kagwe, who was appointed Health CS, has yet to take over pending his vetting by Parliament. However, his predecessor Sicily Kariuki, who was moved to the Ministry of Water, has been holding the fort. Insiders within the Ministry claim some civil servants openly associated with the Tangatanga faction of Jubilee are being given plum jobs. Maybe another matter that requires the attention of Public Service boss Joseph Kinyua. Why would National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale call Commission on Administrative Justice chair Florence Kajuju at night? While at an official function, Kajuju unwittingly said she had talked to Duale the previous night but upon realising, quickly reversed and said it was in the evening. The cat was already out of the bag and Kajuju could not continue with her speech as the audience had burst into uncontrollable laughter. "At least we are agemates," the former Meru Woman Representative said. Duale, while making his remarks later at the event, only made matters worse when he suggested that they probably also meet at night. He was emphasising the need for public servants to work in harmony An overzealous PS is giving his colleagues a rough time. Besides dismantling the reforms, which his predecessor had initiated in the ministry, the PS has made it his business to 'vet' afresh all the female staff in the ministry, now leading to a possible falling-out. The man who is fast hurtling towards retirement is 'turning on' the departments like there is no tomorrow, and was overheard boasting in a drunken stupor that nobody can stop his reggae. Well, discontented staff members have vowed to stop his reggae by revealing the mess he left in his former post and the underhand dealings he is involved in in a rush to make money ahead of his retirement. Why is one MP so enthusiastic about press conferences?  The MP will be present in almost all press conferences, even those that are clearly irrelevant to him. His colleague told Corridors that he will sniff around to know the venue of the next press conference. He would then show up in time for an opportunity to address the media. At one instance, the MP even wanted to address a press conference that had been called by the Kenya Women Parliamentary Association, yet the women legislators had assembled to talk about issues specifically touching on them. At another incident, he joined colleagues from the Northeastern region to talk about issues affecting the region, yet he is from another part of the country.