Five wheelchair basketball debutants are among the 12 players named for next month’s Africa Tokyo 2020 Paralympic Games qualifiers in South Africa. Rajab Abdalla of classification 2.0, Robert Kimotho (1.5), Kevin Njoroge (2.5), Alex Mburu (2.0) and Milton Ilahuya (2.5) have earned their maiden call up to the national team ahead of the event scheduled for March 4-14. Other are Caleb Henry Odiyo (4.0), Itaken Timoi (2.0), Paul Muteti (4.0), Peter Karanja (3.0), Peter Nzioka (4.0), Peter Mungai (1.0) and Simon Ngugi (2.0). Head coach Nick Ngumbi said the selection process was quite tough but feels he got the best players in each classification. He said many players displayed tremendous improvement in the past three months of training. “It was not easy coming up with the final team of 12. Players have shown impressive improvement which I think will work well and bring results for the country. Most of the players we left out are equally good but we had to pick the best in each classification especially those who exhibited consistency,” intimated Ngumbi, a former Kenya Defence Forces’ Ulinzi Warrior’s coach who guided the military side to a back-to-back 10 Kenya Basketball Federation league titles (between 1997 and 2007). The cash-strapped Kenya Wheelchair Basketball Federation has only been afforded four hours of training per week for the team at the Nyayo Stadium gymnasium since last November. Despite the limited training opportunity, Ngumbi is positive ahead of the event. North Africans—Algeria, Egypt and Morocco—have dominated the sport in the continent and Ngumbi’s charges are upbeat to claim the top spot. “We have a formidable lineup and the players are in high spirits ahead of the outing. Kenya is a strong contender for the ticket and the boys have vowed to give their best as they eye a slot in the Paralympic Games,” added the tactician. Ngumbi, together with his assistant Sarah Onzere, must maintain a team handicap of 14 classification points or risk technical foul if he plays a team of over 14. Kenya does not have a wheelchair basketball league hence players have been putting in extra work individually and outside of team training to sharpen their skills.