Mobile phone numbers registered to key suspects in lawyer Willie Kimani case were traced to the crime scene a day before his murder. Witness Nicholas Olesena, a Directorate of Criminal Investigations officer, testified that the phone details were captured at Mastermind area in Mlolongo on June 22, 2016. Willie, his client Josephat Mwenda and taxi driver Joseph Muiruri were brutally murdered on June 23, 2016, and their bodies dumped in Ol Donyo Sabuk River. Administration Police officers Fredrick Leliman, Stephen Cheburet, Sylvia Wanjiku, Leonard Mwangi and police informer Peter Ngugi were charged with the murder. They denied any wrongdoing. Olesena said he wrote several letters to telecommunication companies (Safaricom and Airtel) to extract data from several numbers that they had an interest in, including the key suspect’s numbers. The court heard that phone numbers of the suspects, except Wanjiku, were traced to Mastermind area, where the murder took place on the evening of June 22 — the eve of the murder. The three were killed on June 23, 2016, in Soweto area. Olesena further stated that Leliman and Ngugi’s numbers were also separately captured at the scene of the crime on June 24, a day after the murder. "On June 22, Leliman’s number 0722939198 was captured at Mastermind Mombasa Road at 4.14 pm and at 4.31 pm," he said. According to Olesena’s testimony, it came out that all the accused persons' numbers were at Mlolongo police station and Syokimau area on the days they were also at Mastermind. Ngugi's number was captured on June 22 as he left Waithaka and later went to Mlolongo and Syokimau too. That evening, he also went to Mastermind, then left for Waithaka. On June 23, he was at Mastermind at 8.36 am. At 9.17 am, he was at Mlolongo police station, which was Leliman’s place of work. Ngugi’s phone was also captured at Kilimambogo at 1.32 am. According to Olesena, the area was important to them because that’s where the bodies were discovered. At 6.02 am on the morning of June 24, Ngugi’s phone was also traced to Mlolongo Impala and it stayed there until 14.53 pm. Olesena will resume his testimony on March 23.