Embattled Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko could sink deeper into trouble after one of the witnesses against him in the ongoing corruption case accused him of threatening his life. Danson Muchemi on Saturday recorded a statement at Kilimani police station alleging that Sonko threatened him during a phone conversation on February 20 in Nairobi's Westlands area. He is the chief executive officer of Webtribe company, the owner of JamboPay platform that was contracted by City Hall to collect revenues. Muchemi is one of the prosecution witnesses in the Sh 357 million corruption case that saw the governor barred from stepping into his  office. In the statement seen by the Star, Muchemi claims the governor called him at around 8pm and told him: "Wewe unianiangusha. Niko na mashida [na] wewe uniangusha. Sasa hata impeachment inakuja na unaniangusha. Chunga." [You are letting me down. I have hardships and you are letting me down. Now even my impeachment will begin and you are letting me down. Take care.] "He further told me that he had received reports about me. I tried to talk to him but the conversation was disconnected by him," he added in the police statement. Muchemi said he felt his life was directly threatened by the governor, prompting him to report the matter to the DCI officers. Muchemi claims his fears were aggravated by the fact of a road accident on February 9 along Nyahururu-Gilgil road when a lorry rammed his car. He suffered head injuries and was admitted at Aga Khan hospital for a week. After the accident and the alleged threatening call from the governor, Muchemi said he felt his life was in serious danger and wanted the police to expedite investigating into the matter and guarantee his safety. The claims by Muchemi could cost the governor his bail. The motion for his impeachment was tabled for consideration by Nairobi County Assembly MCAs last week. As one of the bail conditions, the court ordered the governor not to interfere with the case in any way, including not contacting and threatening witnesses. In mid-January, DPP Noordin Haji petitioned the court to cancel Sonko's Sh15 million cash bail after he nominated Nairobi's disaster management and coordination chief officer Anne Mwenda as his deputy. On Friday, the DPP through his assistant Joseph Riungu asked the court to cancel the bail terms granted to Sonko and commit him to detention pending the hearing and determination of his case. The DPP argued in court that there was "a real danger that Sonko will interfere, intimidate and coerce the witnesses" in the case. Muchemi said in his statement that he was cooperating with EACC on the investigation of the tenders his entity had secured from the county administration since 2014 to 2019. But in a counter statement at Capitol Hill police station, Sonko rejected the claims that he threatened Muchemi but admitted calling him. Sonko says that his call to the CEO was about a letter Muchemi had written to his office, demanding payment for the work that his JamboPay platform had rendered  the county. He accused him of lying to the police. "I further wish to state that my conversation with him was purely on his complaint letter dated February 18, a fact he did not disclose in his report and statement to the police, hence giving false information to the police," Sonko wrote.