Controller of Budget Margaret Nyakang'o shocked MPs on Wednesday after disclosing she is operating on foot as the office has no vehicle to carry her around. Appearing before the National Assembly's Finance and National Planning Committee, the CoB narrated how she had been on several occasions chased away in some places given the sorry state of her car. She noted the car she is using is way below her status. Nyakang'o said she is always forced to introduce herself and prove her title to clients who cannot believe that a CoB can be using such a vehicle. "I just wish members can see the vehicle am using, everyone here will sympathize with me. I have no vehicle," Nyakang'o said. "I have been chased in some places because of the vehicle am using. It is a shame." Nyakang'o  was appearing before the Committee to discuss the 2020 Budget Policy Statement. She claims the CoB had zero allocation in this year's budget for purchasing of a vehicle. She pleaded with the committee chaired by Joseph Limo to reconsider the move and facilitate her office to acquire top of range vehicles that reflects her status. In November last year, Chief Justice David Maraga made a public outcry protesting unfair budget allocation for the Judiciary. "Buying luxury cars is only considered wastage of public funds when it concerns the Judiciary," he said. Maraga questioned why he was not given a Mercedes 500 like other speakers of the Parliament. "The CJ has no Mercedes car, we were told its wastage yet the two Speakers of the National Assembly have them. I have a Mercedes 350, which is affordable to many while speakers of both houses have Mercedes 500," he said. An angry Maraga said he had been disrespected for far too long. "I have never owned a Mercedes myself and I am not bothered. Let the office be treated like the Speakers, and Uhuru's office.  We should not be taken to be like illegitimate children." A tough-talking Maraga said the Judiciary is being treated with contempt, adding that he is a human being.