@magatinews Security chiefs in the volatile Nkararo-Enooratet border in Transmara West, Narok county, have called for an end to hostilities between two clans fighting over a boundary. On Monday county security chiefs were still scrambling efforts to stop the fighting that has claimed dozens of lives. Skirmishes between the Siria and Uasin Gishu clans have been going on for decades. Dozens of women living on a ridge near the border have become widows. Both sides are unhappy with the lack of demarcations along the common border dividing them. The government has since constructed a road to separate them. Speaking on Monday during a tour, Narok county commissioner George Natembeya said the government will not sit back and watch as bands of youth slaughter each other. He said officials may be forced to impose night security curfews to reduce friction between the warring youth GSU officials may be deployed as part of the efforts to stem the conflict, Natembeya said. "In an era like this we should not be witnessing such senseless skirmishes, it shouldn't be so at all," Natembeya said. The county commissioner's visit to the area comes days after 10 youths, five from each side clashed on the ridges and sustained arrow injuries. Natembeya also promised that the government will issue title deeds to residents by April to help solve the source of conflict. He warned politicians said to be fanning the conflict. Detectives have been deployed to monitor those instigating the violence, he said. He said there are indications some political leaders were profiting from the skirmishes. He urged residents of both sides to bury the hatchet and allow development to take place. The residents want fresh demarcation carried out to reduce overlapping along the new four-kilometre-long boundary. “No adjudication area can cross each other because their boundaries are very distinct,” Natembeya said. He warned chiefs they risk being sacked if they stoke violence between the clans. “If you are a problem to society, we will deal with you," the county boss said. He told politicians to stop hiding behind their clans he as they instigate violence. The administrator also ordered the reinstatement of Enoosan chief John Naaleke who was interdicted for incitement. The Trans Mara West border dispute has left dozens dead and hundreds maimed over the decades. “Disputes are temporary and the government is committed to ending them, but life cannot be given back once lost,” Natembeya said. He said stolen livestock stolen will be returned to their owners  and arsonists will e arrested. (Edited by V. Graham)