Milk processor Brookside will continue buying raw milk from Taita Taveta farmers after all. Governor Granton Samboja said the county had successfully appealed the company's decision to abandon the Wumingu cooling plant. The company had last week announced that it will close its 10,000-litre daily capacity cooling plant on March 1, citing underperformance. “The company has finally agreed to stay. It will continue receiving raw milk. We will have consultative meetings with farmers on how to address challenges that prompted them to withdraw from the company,” Samboja told dairy farmers Wednesday. The governor said the Kenya Dairy Board will sensitise farmers on milk production and preservation to increase productivity. “We also need to stop selling milk to middlemen who have led to the decrease of supply to Brookside from 5,500 litres to 2,000 litres a day,” Samboja said. Brookside Dairy's Director of milk procurement and manufacturing John Gethi commended interventions by the county government to increase milk production. "We are willing to partner with the county government in training of farmers on ways of growing milk production in Taita Taveta," Gethi said in a press statement. He said the current interventions will eventually lead to a reduction in the cost of doing business by improving the overall efficiencies along the dairy value chain in Taita Taveta County. "Increased production means improved incomes for farmers. It also helps them to maximise on the benefits of economies of scale in the dairy business," Gethi said. Gethi assured that the Brookside's Wumingu plant was operational and will continue to receive raw milk from farmers in the area. He asked farmers to double their efforts at increasing milk production for maximum utilisation of the plant. Agriculture CEC Davis Mwangoma said the department will continue supporting farmers by providing AI services to boost milk production. “The department has deployed extension officers in every ward to offer Artificial Insemination services at a subsidised price. We are targeting to produce enough milk for the market,”Mwangoma said.