Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen has alleged the fake military tender saga is a plot to setup Deputy President William Ruto. He said the investors - Mustafa Lofty and Stanley Bruno Kozlowski - who visited the DP's office in the Company of former Sports CS Rashid Echesa could be 'later day' Artur brothers. "I believe Mustafa Lofty and Stanley Kozlowski are later days Artur brothers. They are mercenaries. Arrest them. They can’t be investors," Murkomen said. Artur Margayan and Sargasyan were Armenian brothers who caused outrage in 2006, when in turned out that the men, who wined and dined with senior government officials, were in fact mercenaries linked to narcotics. Murkomen said there is no single investor who can sign a DoD contract worth Sh39.5 billion in a waiting room without a lawyer or witnesses. He said the entire saga appears to be a well-orchestrated plan meant to trap the DP who was not in his office at that time. "Are they another set of Artur Margaryan and Artur Sargysyan? What are their Immigration status?" Murkomen said. Bruno, an American based in Poland, claimed that Echesa had promised to link him to a tender. He and Lofty went to Harambee Annex, which houses Ruto's office, last Friday where they said they were to sign the tender. They were accompanied by Echesa. Murkomen's remarks come shortly after Ruto wrote to the IG, asking him to speed up investigations into the role of Echesa in his involvement. Echesa was charged with conspiracy to commit a felony by conspiring to make a document with intent to defraud. He was also charged alongside three others with six counts of making a false document in the multi-billion scam. In a letter seen by the Star on Wednesday, Ruto asked the police to establish who accessed his office and how the police officers cleared them. "How did Echesa in the company of others including foreigners access the DP's office? How many people accessed the waiting room and which security officers facilitated the same?" he posed. The Ministry of Defence distanced itself from the fake military arms procurement scam. In a statement released on Monday, the ministry stated that investigators and complainants visited the ministry's headquarters on Monday.