The Garissa BBI meeting that had earlier been planned for February 9 has been rescheduled for February 23. The decision was made at the weekend by Northeastern politicians who met for a dialogue over the Building Bridges Initiative. They deliberated on the issues affecting the region and that should be incorporated into the BBI report. Most leaders from the region attended. Soon after the meeting, Garissa Governor Ali Korane, who was the convener, announced their decision on his Facebook page. “The BBI NE region rally proposed for 9th February in Garissa has been rescheduled for 23rd February 2020. There is, therefore, NO rally in Garissa on 9th February 2020 (sic),” the post read. According to an MP from Garissa who attended the meeting, they made the decision to create time to collect residents views and ensure ODM leader Raila Odinga, who has been leading the rallies, attend. President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila are headed for the United States to share their Handshake experiences. But even before the meeting is held, National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale Duale (Garissa Township), who has not been attending the BBI rallies, dismissed the rallies as confusion. "My tray is full with Parliament resuming next week. The people of Northeastern are facing a lot of problems from insecurity, schools being closed to census issues. These are my priorities for now,” Duale said in his Facebook post. "I will present my proposals to the Haji-led team because it is the one recognised by law. I don't address the problems of my people through public barazas. Issues of proportional representation and allocation of resources will top our agenda as a region." Wajir Woman Representative Fatuma Gedi hit out at Duale, accusing him of dishonesty and trying to mislead Northeastern residents. She said the meetings are important and give the common mwananchi an opportunity to give their views and enrich the BBI document. Gedi said residents fully support the BBI because they stand to benefit the most since it will address perennial problems such as clan politics that are common in Northeastern and which have on the extreme led to bloodshed. “We believe the BBI will address most of the issues that we have been grappling with. All I'm calling for is for residents to come out and present their views. We have an opportunity to be heard,” she said.