High taxes on cigarettes ate into British American Tobacco Kenya's (BAT) full year returns. Yesterday, the firm reported a 4.9 per cent drop in profit from the financial year ended December 31, consequently hurting its contribution to government revenue which sunk by 1.4 per cent. According to the financial report, the cigarette firm which has been the target of the perennial sin tax reported a profit of Sh3.9 billion compared to Sh4.1 billion in the previous financial year. Tax to the government on other hand dropped to Sh18 billion. Gross profits dropped to 5.5 billion compared to Sh5.9 billion the previous financial year. The cost of operations increased by 26 per cent to Sh18.3 billion, mainly due to the estimated impact of the introduction of compensation fund in 2019. ''We continue to engage government authorities to clarify the basis of computing this levy and ensure it does not adversely impact the company’s competitiveness especially on exports,'' BAT Kenya MD Beverley Spencer-Obatoyinbo said. She said that the company is concerned that the latest excise shock will lead to a major increase in the incidence of tax-evaded cigarettes unless the Kenyan and Ugandan work together to tackle the problem at source. The MD said BAT Kenya’s business continues to show resilience and deliver sustained shareholder value, despite the difficult operating environment in Kenya and in many of our export markets. The Kenyan government raised excise duty on cigarettes and alcoholic drinks this financial year, effectively pushing up the cost of a packet of cigarette by Sh8. The Nairobi Securities Exchange-listed cigarette maker added that further increases in excise duty could deal a hard blow on its profitability by putting its products out of consumers’ reach. Higher cutrag sales volumes as well as inflationary cost increases also drove costs up, but these were partially offset by the positive contribution of productivity initiatives. These incremental costs led to a decline in operating margins by 6.2 percentage points in 2018 to 23.8 per cent. However, gross revenue increased by 9.1 per cent to Sh39.8 billion during the year under review, driven by excise-led pricing on cigarettes in Kenya, increased cut rag sales in Sudan and the introduction of new revenue in Kenya following the launch of BAT’s new oral nicotine, pouch. The drop in performance will now see investors earnings per share drop by Sh2 to Sh38.85 compared to Sh40.88 last year. They will earn dividend per share of Sh33.50 compared to Sh35.