Murang’a county government has set up a Sh100 million revolving fund to lend working tools to youths who graduate from local polytechnics. Governor Mwangi wa Iria said the ‘Ufundi Kwa Vijana’ programme, started three years ago, has now benefitted about 40,000 youths. The programme targets youths who are unable to further their education after secondary school. Through the programme, youths are trained on courses such as masonry, plumbing, beauty, bakery, electrical wiring, mechanics and tailoring. The county government has now registered a co-operative that will bring together all beneficiaries so that they can benefit from government’s support. The sacco, dubbed Ufundi Kwa Vijana Co-operative Society, aims at benefiting more than 200,000 youths in the next three years, he said. “The Sh100 million will be the seed capital but we are looking to expand the programme to up to Sh2 billion,” the governor said. Each of the beneficiaries will receive tools worth about Sh10,000 as most of the tool kits cost between Sh5,000 to Sh15,000, Wa Iria said. The co-operative will have the membership of county officials and polytechnic managers. The governor said the co-operative will start issuing the tools in three months time and that ill-disciplined youth will be locked out. A team of community workers will be engaged to ensure the youths repay the money to the co-operative. “We have registered this Sacco so that we can work together with the national government to empower these youths,” Wa Iria said, noting that the county government is tendering for the tools required for the courses the youths are being trained on. He said youths are the foundation of any nation’s development, which is why the county government is investing in their empowerment. After getting their certificates, the graduands will be able to start working and eventually employ other youths, he added. “We will officially roll out this programme in March and we want to syndicate with financial institutions and local leaders to make it successful,” Wa Iria said. He asked ICT cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru to avail youth officers who will work with the county government to put in place structures that will make the fund long-running. “Our aim is to ensure there will be no idle youths loitering around in the next few years,” he said during the graduation ceremony of 10,000 beneficiaries at Mumbi grounds on Friday. Transport Cabinet James Macharia lauded the governor for coming up with the concept of empowering youths. He said the governor had come up with a pioneer idea that should be emulated countrywide. “Empowering youths to start small businesses is teaching them how to fish. As a leader from Murang’a, I will not let you down. We will work with other leaders to push the programme forward,” he said. Mucheru, who was the chief guest, said the model established in Murang’a can work in empowering youths countrywide. “We want to ensure youths are part of everything being done by the government and to make sure they are present at the table when decisions are being made. This is why the president has appointed very young people in government positions,” Mucheru said.