Budalang’i MP Raphael Wanjala wants the proposed gender rule proposed in the BBI report removed. He said on Wednesday that he will formally write to the Building Bridges Initiative team to have the rule reconsidered. One highlight of the BBI report presented to President Uhuru Kenyatta on November 26, 2019, is that no county, in case the report is adopted in its current state, will field a gubernatorial candidate and a deputy of the same sex. In counties where contestants are men, their deputies would be women and vice-versa. But Wanjala says the proposal should be scrapped so Kenyans are allowed to elect capable leaders irrespective of their gender. "If I run for the position of governor, I should not be told that the person I pick should be from the opposite sex," the lawmaker said in a radio interview. "What if I picked my wife as my deputy and I am elected? Wouldn’t the leadership of my county be a family affair?" Those supporting the clause, however, say it offers a solution to gender inequality by elevating more women to leadership positions. On Saturday, Wanjala was booed by a section of the crowd attending the Narok BBI rally when he raised the issue. "Gender issues cannot be dictated in a democracy. That rule should be scrapped," he had said. Women leaders in support of the BBI castigated him for the statement, insisting the proposal will fix gender inequality. On February 1, women leaders demanded full implementation of the two-third gender rule. In the recommendations read by former nominated Senator and current Nairobi county assembly Beatrice Elachi, the leaders said the rule would be vital in achieving the 50-50 principle where men and women share positions equally. The recommendations were read on January 30 during the Kitui BBI rally hosted by Governor Charity Ngilu. But Wanjala says, "Women are the majority in Kenya. So why reserve seats for the majority?" He said even in highly democratised and civilised countries, women jostle for positions with men. In recent years, Kenya has been grappling to narrow the gender inequality gap. Although the Constitution unveiled by President Mwai Kibaki and Prime Minister Raila Odinga laid out mechanisms for elevating more women to leadership positions, the country is still struggling to see more women climb the leadership ladder in the male-dominated field of politics. Out of the current 47 counties, there are only two elected women governors – Kitui’s Charity Ngilu and Kirinyaga’s Ann Waiguru. This was after the death of Bomet Governor Joyce Laboso. After the 2017 election, women won 172 of the 1,883 elective seats that were up for grabs. Despite the grim picture, it meant 27 more women were elected compared to 2013 when 145 women sailed through the ballot. In April 2016, lawmakers failed to pass a vital bill to support the two-third gender rule as stipulated in the Constitution, despite calls for support by President Uhuru Kenyatta. "I call upon all our members to vote for this bill. We need to pass this bill into law to comply with the constitutional provisions on the composition of elective offices in Kenya. The people of Kenya are waiting to see you make history,” the President had said. But MPs failed to heed his plea and rejected the proposed law that would have ensured equitable gender representation Parliament. On the day of voting, of the 242 members present during the sitting, only 195 MPs voted in favour.