Kenya team warhorse Elly Ajowi and his Police teammate Boniface Mugunde are among six Kenyan boxers given byes to quarterfinals of the ongoing Africa Olympic Qualifiers in Dakar, Senegal. Ajowi will fight Maroy Sadiiki of Ivory Coast on Tuesday next week in the last eight of the heavyweight division while All African Games super-heavyweight bronze medallist Fredrick ‘McGregor’ Ramogi has a bye to the quarters and will also fight same day with Moroccan Ahmed Bourous who also sailed through with a bye. Deputy captain and Kenya’s only female Olympic boxer Elizabeth Andiego also received a bye to the quarters and will touch gloves with Mozambican Gramane Rady Adosinda on Monday. Rabat bronze medalist Boniface Mugunde also secured a bye to the Round of 8 and will on Monday slug it out with the winner of bout number 37, pitting Cameroon’s Ayissi Migue and Moroccan Amroug Zine. Others with byes to the last eight are lightweight Everlyne Akinyi and her welterweight compatriot Elizabeth Akinyi. Today, Kenya’s Joseph Shigali has a date with Ghana’s Omar Abdul Sahib in the first lightweight preliminary in Bout 17 on pairing schedules. Beatrice Akoth, who will be making her ‘Hit Squad’ debut will be next in line this evening when she exchanges punches with Ali Ramia Said Ahmed from Somalia. Tomorrow, it will be the turn of team captain Nick Okoth to start his quest for a second Olympic slot when he goes toe to toe with Semedo Wilson Carlos (Cape Verde). The Kenyan ladies are all gunning to emulate Andiego’s fairy tale qualification in London 2012. Commonwealth Games bronze medallist Christine Ongare will take on Burundian flyweight Omela Hanarmana for a slot to the quarters. “I think we have a fairly good draw and if the boxers give their all, we shall get some tickets for Tokyo,” Boxing Federation of Kenya (BFK) public relations officer, Duncan ‘Sugar Ray’ Kuria said. Meanwhile, Nigeria, Togo and South Africa are the notable absentees in Dakar, Senegal due to various reasons. “I have just learnt that IOC refused to allow two boxers from Nigeria to come on there own and therefore the coach cancelled the travel of the duo. The official position now is that Nigeria will miss Africa Olympic qualifiers due to lack of funds. This is a very unfortunate situation indeed,” Kuria confirmed Kuala Lumpur Malaysia Commonwealth Games silver medallist Absalom Okinyi ‘Diablo’ believes the absence of Nigeria and South Africa gives Kenya an advantage. “That’s good news for us. We are now ready to rumble. Those are the tough countries that were expected to pose a threat in Dakar. The more they fail to participate, the more it becomes an advantage to us. Therefore I wish our team all the best,” Okinyi said.