If you are the type to fall headfirst for a man who you have just been talking for a few weeks only to realize he is not it for you, mantourage dating could be the solution to your problem. So what exactly is mantourage dating and why should women try it? Mantourage dating has been described as dating a few men at once to the point where one finds their endless love or decides to embrace it as a long term plan. Mantourage dating does not, however, mean that a woman needs to sleep with all the men she is dating but still does not mean that a woman cannot. It is 2020, such things are a person’s volition. In mantourage dating, a woman is expected to be very honest about her undertakings with the men she is seeing, she is expected to respect the men’s feelings but most of she is supposed to be in it for all the right reasons. No games. This dating style has been liberating to most women who have so far tried it. It gives women the power to dictate how they choose to do a romantic life. It helps women experience the idea of love in a way they otherwise wouldn’t have if they dated the conventional way. Apart from experiencing love in a different light, what else makes mantourage dating exciting and worth the while? First of all, while mantourage dating, a woman is not clouded by her feelings for one man which most of the time culminates with her neglecting everything around her and even ignoring red flags. It gives a woman the aura of being worth the while and therefore possesses a challenge to men that if they want her to commit to them, they also need to be worth the while. Mantourage dating dispels the notion that a woman has to settle for a man who just because there is love involved. Come on people! It has to be deeper than that. It gives a woman a chance to experience all the feels, embrace her femininity all the while being pursued on her terms. A woman involved mantourage dating has the chance to decide what she wants in a man and what she can live with. It also helps her eradicate insecurities about love or even some assumptions that have been made up about men. Additionally, it confirms to women that they are deserving of love as well as a romantic life that is built on a firm foundation of trust, openness all on one’s own terms. It helps bring women in their element of being vulnerable as men embrace the package we come as. Finally, mantourage dating helps a woman understand themselves better by showing them their worth, tip the rules of love in their favour, kick start a romantic life devoid of dating regrets, and I mean, no one wants to waste forever with the wrong man only to realize that she could have done better in the dating scene. After all is said and done, why don’t you give this a try?