Members of an influential Parliamentary committee are playing in their own league-flouting parliamentary rules and House procedures-just to massage their selfish interests. Holding closed sessions. In one such a session they were in their best element. First, they threw out journalists then went for Parliamentary orderlies. Members of the secretariat were not spared either as they retreated to execute a matter well known to themselves. While there are clear guidelines under the standing orders providing for closed sittings for parliamentary committees, this one obviously did not meet that threshold. Sadly, news filtered how the committee members were cutting deals in the private session. One of the MPs was overhead bragging how they met in camera to dish out projects among themselves. Corridors also learnt that every MP managed to get at least one multi-million project in their areas, all factored in the upcoming budget. Maybe it is time the House Speaker Justin Muturicalled out rogue MPs. The son of an official working in Kilifi County is running the show in all departments within the county. He claims the devolved unit is his family's den. The flamboyant school dropout, with a taste of an exploitative and lavish lifestyle, is often spotted around the government offices threatening and harassing county officers. He tells the shaken staff that he will engineer their transfers and demotions to the "bench" if they don't corporate with him especially on his interests. It is alleged that the young man is a source of major fake contracts causing issues in the county. Residents of Kisumu City are wondering why the government suddenly changed heart and spared a highrise commercial building initially earmarked for demolition. The building had been condemned for demolition to pave the way for the expansion of the multi-million shilling infrastructure project. The building overlooking the project was to be brought down but the idea appears to have been shelved altogether. A mole told Corridors that a senior politician went behind the scenes to buy it at a throwaway price from the owner. The change of ownership meant that the structure would be shielded from demolition as it is now owned by the influential politician. Even tenants who had moved out for fears of losing properties in case of demolition are slowly trooping back after assurance that no bulldozers would be at the site any time soon. Indeed some animals are more equal than others Reality is sinking on the head of a state commission who has been issuing threats and antagonising her juniors with her belligerent attitude. The 'boss', as she’s disdainfully referred to does not hesitate to show to all that care that she’s the most powerful woman in the land as she consults with the Head of State directly. Corridors understand that she has been finally humbled by the reality that her tenure is drawing to closure with no prospects of extension. Colleagues are shocked she now has the temerity to pretend to listen to the plight of many civil servants in far-flung areas.