Kenyans have very little understanding of the deadly coronavirus, its symptoms and how to manage it. Most people interviewed by the Star on Friday said they are not adequately prepared to deal with the COVID-19, despite knowing that Kenya is at a higher risk of an outbreak. “I am so afraid of this virus and I do not feel like the government has done enough sensitisation. It has not told us how we should prepare in case it comes,” a boda boda operator based in Nairobi said. Out of 15 people interviewed, only one said he was aware of the signs and symptoms of the infection, how it spreads and how to handle it. John Kamau, a taxi driver based in Nairobi, said he always wears a surgical mask whenever he picks up a customer. Fredrick Omondi, a city street vendor, said he was not concerned about the infection, not even an outbreak. "If it comes, let it come. Then we will see what will happen from there. Lazima biashara iendelee [business must go on],"  he said. Some said they will move to the neighbouring countries in case of an outbreak. They accused the government of being asleep on the job. “The government is not listening to our cries. All that the top officials are doing is talking about the BBI. We do not even know what it [coronavirus] is,” Danson Kamau, a taxi driver, said. “How come Kenya is the only country allowing China Airlines in [yet it has left] our people back there [Wuhan]? We are very bitter.” According to the World Health Organisation, the disease can spread from person to person through small droplets from the nose or mouth when a person with COVID-19 coughs or exhales. These droplets land on objects and surfaces around the person. Other people then catch COVID-19 by touching these objects or surfaces, then touching their eyes, nose or mouth. People can also catch COVID-19 if they breathe in droplets from a person with COVID-19 who coughs out or exhales droplets. This is why it is important to stay more than one metre (three feet) away from an infected person. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya