Military engineers have begun work on the grave and mausoleum where retired President Moi will be buried at his Kabarak home on Wednesday. Moi's grave will be beside that of his wife Lenah. Elders from his Tugen community approved the area before military engineers began work on the grave. “Moi was a statesman and this is a state funeral. We are fully in support of what the government is doing to give him a befitting send-off,” an elder said. Moi’s Kabarak home has been blocked off by military officers and police who are working on burial plans. A funeral service will be held at the Moi High School grounds before burial. Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembea was among top government officers who were present to supervise the preparations. An estimated 150,000 people are expected to turn up for the funeral. “All preparations are in place and we are just making final touches on a few areas,” Natembea said. Natembea said they will strictly enforce all directives, including on the control of traffic along the Nairobi-Nakuru and Eldoret Highway. Several schools and other institutions near the Kabarak area have been designated for the parking of both vehicles and helicopters. Priority will be given to local and international dignitaries expected at the funeral service. The service will be screened live on giant screens in Afraha Stadium, Nakuru and Kabarnet towns to allow citizens to watch the proceedings. Residents of Baringo Central, where Moi served as MP for more than three decades, said they would have wished to have his body taken to the area for viewing before being moved to Kabarak for burial. “Moi served the people of the people of Baringo for long. We have lost a father actually and it was the wish of everyone that they are allowed to view the body. We also understand it’s a state funeral,” former Eldama Ravine MP Musa Sirma said. Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai has directed that the Nairobi, Nakuru-Eldoret highway be closed for long-distance trucks starting tomorrow midday. Police will be stationed all along the highway to enforce the order and ensure smooth flow of traffic. Thousands of people are expected to use the highway to travel for the funeral. In Eldoret, Kapsabet and Iten towns, institutions founded by Moi and residents were preparing to attend the funeral. Some of the institutions and churches were organising buses to ferry residents to Kabarak on Wednesday. Elders from the Nandi community led by David Chepsiror said they would travel to Kabarak to pay last respects to Moi whom they held in high esteem and respect. “We have lost a giant in our community and the country and it will also be historic to be there and see him off,” Chepsiror said.