ODM leader Raila Odinga has allayed fears that the proposed position of Prime Minister in the Building Bridges Initiative report will create two centres of power. Raila, who was responding to ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi’s concerns over the proposal, likened the proposal to the structure of governance in Tanzania and France. In Tanzania, the prime minister is the leader of government business in the National Assembly. The position is subordinated to the president, the head of government. In France, the Prime Minister is appointed by the President and is responsible to Parliament. The government, including the Prime Minister, can be revoked by the National Assembly. Raila said the proposed position will be different from the one Kenya had during the Grand Coalition Government. “The Grand Coalition was a special arrangement because power was shared between former President Kibaki and me. It is, however, good that he (Mudavadi) has talked about it because look deeper into his concerns and have a permanent solution,” he stated. Mudavadi had indicated that Raila had problems in the Grand Coalition Government because there were two centres of power. “I was Deputy Prime Minister. We had problems and Raila had difficulties chairing Cabinet sessions. We have no problems introducing a broader structure but the country must achieve what it did not accomplish in the 2010 Constitution through clarity,” he said. He added that during the Grand Coalition Government, he was Raila’s deputy and not the co-Prime Minister. He explained that even in the current situation, there are leaders who think there is a co-presidency. “We have the President and Deputy President but there are those who believe there is a co-presidency,” he reiterated. The two-party leaders were speaking at William ole Ntimama in Narok during the fifth consultative forum of the BBI. Present were Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula, Central Organisation of Trade Unions secretary general Francis Atwoli, Cabinet Secretaries Eugene Wamalwa, Keriako Tobiko and Amina Mohammed Governors Wycliffe Oparanya, Samuel Tunai, Joseph ole Lenku, Ann Waiguru, Charity Ngilu, Kivutha Kibwana , John Nyangarama, Alex Tolgos, Alfred Mutua, Okoth Obado, Cornel Rasanga and Cyprian Awiti also attended. Others were legislators Junet Mohamed, Richard ole Kenta, Dennitah Ghati, Babu Owino, Justus Kizito, Naisula Lesuuda, Peris Tobiko, John Mbadi, Katoo ole Metito, Raphael Wanjal, Wilson Sossion, Gladys Wanga, Godfrey Osotsi, Bernard Shinali, Emanuel Wangwe and Elsie Muhanda