Deputy President William Ruto has written to the IG to speed up investigations into the role of former Sports CS Rashid Echesa in his involvement in the Sh39 billion fake military arms deal. Echesa was charged with conspiracy to commit a felony by conspiring to make a document with intent to defraud. He was also charged alongside three others with six counts of making a false document in the multi-billion scam. In a letter seen by the Star on Wednesday, Ruto asked the police to establish who accessed his office and how the police officers cleared them. "How did Echesa in the company of others including foreigners access the DP's office? How many people accessed the waiting room and which security officers facilitated the same?" he posed. Through his chief of staff, Ruto asked Police IG Hillary Mutyambai to establish the identity and mission of the persons who accompanied Echesa and their criminal records if any. "Establish the identity of the foreigners, their immigration status and their mission in Kenya," he said. "Also, identity security officers who facilitated the entry." In the letter referenced Security Breach at Harambee Annex, Ruto wants a forensic investigation on Eco Advance Technologies and who their Kenyan representatives are. "What actions will be taken to avoid recurrence of the same breach... the foreigners should not be allowed to leave the country," he said. On Tuesday, Echesa claimed that he was friends with Ruto adding that he could see him without an appointment. "Ruto is my friend and I don't need an appointment to see him," he said. Echesa finally spoke after a week of drama that saw him arrested, spend the weekend behind bars, arraigned and finally released on a Sh1 million cash bail. Ruto had pointed an accusing finger at Echesa for lying about an appointment to meet him on the day he visited his Harambee House Annex office in the fake military equipment deal. Echesa reportedly informed security officers manning Ruto's office that he had an appointment with him – something the DP later denied.