His towering two-metre frame makes him stand out in an average human crowd. But it is Paul Bitok’s exploits in the volleyball circles that has enhanced his stature on the continent in the eyes of the game’s enthusiasts. The Kenya national women’s team coach cerebral and corporate approach to the sport has earned him admirers far and wide. The 46- year-old father of three daughters—Dorcas, Michelle and Marion—envisions a time not in the too distant future when volleyball will be a fully-fledged professional sport in the country. It is something that he has broached with many stakeholders most of whom, by his own admission, are not overly keen for the revolution. “Several clubs are not keen to embrace the changes we foresee for the development of the game and better welfare of the players,” conceded Bitok. “However, with time and greater knowledge, they will come to understand why it is important that we go towards that direction. Right now, we have world-class volleyballers who can not embrace professionalism because of their responsibility to their employers,” he explained. Bitok, born in Simat village in Uasin Gishu County on May 5, 1974, has been a maverick in the volleyball circles ever since he ditched basketball when still in Form Two at Kapsabet Boys High School. “The village where I come from (Simat) has produced sixty per cent of men volleyball players in the country and therefore, it was only natural that I drifted towards that end. I started playing when I was 15 years old and I have never looked back since,” recalled Bitok. From the onset, Bitok was destined to be a top-notch volleyball player. His height alone gave him an advantage that saw him recruited by the Postal Corporation who gave him his first job and made him part of their volleyball squad between 1993 and 1996. Ever a restless spirit and someone who wanted to pursue different challenges, Bitok at only 22 years left Posta to move to KCB where he would play for them for two years. Soon after, he was on the move again as he signed professional terms with Tunisian side Rades Sportif Du Sahel in 1997 and remained there until 2000. “Clubs in North Africa are run in a very professional way and that is my vision for Kenyan volleyball,” he said. At KCB where he is the technical director of the women volleyball team, Bitok has introduced professional terms in the team something that he says the sponsors have taken to after persistent goading. “At KCB, we have five players who are on professional terms. We want to take a new approach to the affairs of volleyball if we are to match our counterparts in Europe and Asia. “We must try to separate volleyball clubs from the institutions that sponsor them because more often than not their responsibility to their employers clash with their ambitions as volleyballers. “Clubs must be independent and be able to generate their own income and source for more sponsors apart from the institution that supports them,” he explained. Bitok pointed out that institution-owned clubs restrict the ambitions of players as clearance for example of players in the forces seeking to turn professional is never easy. “That is why you see volleyballers going for short term contracts abroad then return to their countries. This is something that needs to change,” he stated. Bitok’s unyielding desire to open the doors for volleyballers to earn a decent living off the game is informed by his own personal experience having been approached by a Nigerian who was pleased with his ability and persuaded him to play professionally in Qatar. Bitok, then a rookie, was satisfied with his circumstances and was just settling into marriage with his wife Jennifer Bitok and found moving abroad unsettling. “A few years later when we went for the African Championships, I met the player and his fortunes had changed for the better. He owned several businesses including a couple of petrol stations and it struck me that that is a path that I need to follow for the sake of my own future,” he narrated. It is soon after that he moved to Tunisia before going on to play for Zagreb in Croatia between 2001 and 2003. “I used to play for Zagreb for seven months then return to my work as a clerk at KCB. This was never easy and I made a decision to end my career as a player in 2004 to pursue other goals,” revealed Bitok who is the coach of the national women’s volleyball team. After his retirement as a player, Bitok wore many hats. He started managing athletes and following them in local competitions. Volleyball, however, was still close to his heart and when he was asked to take over as coach of the KCB women team, he responded in the affirmative. “During the end of year party, I was unveiled as a coach and I had to take up the responsibility of building a competitive team,” recalled Bitok. He added: “The squad was ageing and lacked young players. Most of those who were here were in their comfort zones and did not want to push themselves to succeed. So I had to make changes if we were to challenge for honours locally and on the continent.” Keen to beef up his club before the new KVF League season began, Bitok, ever the go-getter, moved around and recruited 12 players from high school and moved in with them in his home at Ongata Rongai while renting a house for four others in Mathare North, near where they trained. “We started training in January, earlier than the veterans were used to before they knew it we had registered an entirely different squad and they were locked out,” said Bitok with a cunning smile. Bitok’s path to legendary status in the volleyball world was not all rosy. His path was opened with sheer grit, un-ending will and determination to succeed. He relived his stint as a nascent KCB coach including that of their unexpected registration for the 2005 African Volleyball Club Championships despite having finished fourth in the previous KVF league that would spur his career to greater heights. “KVF gave us green light to take part in the Africa Club Championships. We had no money to go into the usual residential camp. Instead, we moved to the KCB Karen leadership Center, where we stayed in an unoccupied five-bedroom staff quarter as a team. We applied for a stipend with KCB and were successful,” Bitok said. He went on: “I told the girls that their allowances will be used to facilitate our stay in camp and they agreed. Oba (KCB’s then Japanese coach) managed to convince their embassy to allow us to use the facilities at the Japanese School which they agreed.” The bankers would eventually go on to finish third in their first-ever appearance in the tournament. In 2006 Bitok and his girls would make history as KCB claimed their first-ever African Club Championship title at the expense of Egypt side, Al Ahly. “Al Ahly did not train for that match. That showed how they disregarded the challenge that we posed. But the girls showed their winning spirit which guided them to their current status in the country,” said Bitok. The success with KCB led to Bitok’s technical abilities being spotted by KVF President Waithaka Kioni who handed him the assistant coach role with the Malkia Strikers, the Kenya women’s volleyball team. “Kioni did not believe that I could guide a team like KCB to win the championship at the expense of a club like Kenya Prisons and Kenya Pipeline who made up the majority of the national women team. He then asked me to join the technical bench,” said Bitok. Now a household name among volleyball followers, Bitok proceeded to Hungary in 2007 where he studied Sports Science with a specialisation in Volleyball. The graduate of Jaramogi Oginga University of Science and Technology returned in 2008 to lead KCB to a third-place finish in the African Club Championship having fallen to a Dorcas Ndasaba and Janet Wacu led Kenya Prisons team in the semi-finals. His exploits with KCB would attract admirers beyond the Kenyan shores with Rwandan side APR putting forth a deal that was too good to refuse to lead him to depart for Kigali in 2009 to take charge of the Rwanda giants. Bitok would stay in Rwanda for ten years— revolutionising the game in the tiny East African nation. “I consider my achievements in Rwanda as some of my best given that the country had no background in the sport and I helped set up structures for their success both in indoor volleyball and beach volleyball,” he stated fondly. Bitok returned to the country in 2019 and his Midas touch was on show again as he led Kenya’s Malkia Strikers to qualify for the Tokyo 2020 Olympics, their first appearance in the games since 2004. Currently, he manages the Paul Bitok Foundation as well as organises the Paul Bitok volleyball tournament which has been sponsored by Amaco Insurance. Also with the help of Chris Grant and other American partners, he founded the Paul Bitok Academy where young aspiring volleyballers and netballers are educated in the newly introduced Competency-Based Curriculum. In his spare time, he tends to his large scale maize farms in Simat and Nandi as well as runs an athletics management firm that currently boasts of Brimin Kipkorir, the winner of the 2019 Standard Chartered Marathon among others. Bitok hopes his entrepreneurial management style will help him get an administrative seat in the KVF polls set for 2022 and then implement his vision and blueprint for professional volleyball in Kenya. 