September 23 last year was a normal school day for more than 800 pupils at Precious Talent Academy. But at 6am, the unthinkable happened. A classroom wall collapsed crushing eight pupils. Kenyatta National Hospital admitted 64 others with injuries. The morning tragedy left not only Ng'ando ward residents grieving but the whole nation at large. The next step was for the national and  Nairobi governments to determine the cause of the tragedy – who might have slept on their job and what could be done to prevent any such tragedies in the future. Dagoretti South MP John Kiarie accused the government of abandoning the area. The MP said the entire ward did not have any public primary schools since a huge portion of the land was privately owned, except the 230 acres owned by the Lenana School. The MP said Ng'ando ward used to enjoy public facilities when it was under the larger Riruta Ward. He called on the government to put in place measures to ensure residents can access public utilities such as hospitals and both primary and public secondary schools. During the funeral service for the eight pupils, ODM leader Raila Odinga said the government would build a primary school in the area to accommodate the displaced pupils. Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta each donated Sh1 million for the construction of a new public primary school in Dagoretti South. Raila said the land on which the new school will be established is owned by Lenana School. "This is an order from the President. We shall build the school here at Lenana School because Lenana is a government school. The construction shall begin immediately as ordered by the President,” Raila said. Magoha added, "If the government wants to take what belongs to the government from Lenana School to build Lenana Primary School, who are you to say no?" That was five months ago. But nothing is on the ground to indicate that the school will be constructed. Pupils are still walking kilometres away in search of education. Nearby public primary schools include Ngong Forest, which is 2.5 kilometres away – and Jamhuri Primary, about 3.6 kilometres away. Other parents have opted to take their children to Riruta Satellite Primary, 1.7 kilometres away. Apart from the distance the pupils have to cover every day to and from school, parents are also worried about the safety of their children. Some parents said their children report to school late, while others fail to attend classes during the rainy season. The Star found out that Precious Talent Academy had been renovated and was to admit pupils in January. The classes have been upgraded from its initial outlook and some residents say that they are ready to enrol their children in the school once it is allowed to operate. After the tragedy last year, National Buildings Inspectorate secretary Moses Nyakiongora termed the collapsed wall "a deathtrap". He said the material used was not suitable for construction. Nyakiongora said the government should carry out investigations to establish how the school was licensed to operate with makeshift structures. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko blamed corrupt officials for approving substandard buildings in the county. He suspended 16 county officials to pave the way for investigations but some of them have since been reinstated. The governor said some officials in his office had been violating the Physical Planning Act and Zoning regulations with impunity. "Through the audit, I established that on more than one occasion, rogue officers would switch off the digital system at City Hall to bypass the official channel in issuing building approvals," Sonko said. Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha ordered the closure of the school as investigations started. He defended his quality assurance officers, saying that the building might have slipped their minds. "You notice that somebody built another storey building on top of another one...I must defend my quality assurance officers... something like this can slip your sight... I will take responsibility but I will continue to make sure that all things are done in the right manner." "I have not come here to blame anybody. This single tragic incident must not be used to instil fear in our children." The CS later revoked the school's licence following recommendations by a task force that was set up to look into the safety of pupils after the tragedy. He said the school violated the rules by enrolling 923 pupils instead of 340. The owner of the school, Moses Ndirangu, was arrested and arraigned before Kibera chief magistrate Joyce Gandani who allowed police to detain him for 15 days as they concluded investigations. After investigations, Ndirangu was presented before the same court and charged with eight counts of manslaughter, which he denied. He told the court that the incident was an "act of God, which no one could have thought of". Interviews with a number of parents revealed that the school was top-performing and affordable, although it was private. Edited by R.Wamochie