A lacklustre Kenya Sevens side picked a solitary point after a miserable outing at the Sydney Sevens tournament over the weekend. It was arguably the worst Shujaa have played this year, leaving them on 26 points after four tournaments. Paul Feeney’ s charges failed to win a match Down Under, losing 28-14 to eventual winners Fiji, 26-21 to Wales and 19-5 to New Zealand. In the 15th place classification match, they lost to Samoa 19-12. Feeney said they have to work on their discipline after seeing three players sent to the sin bin in the match against Wales. “It was disappointing that at this elite level indiscipline is punished ruthlessly by our opponents. We have learnt our lessons, which we take forward,” said Feeney. The New Zealand tactician said the team must work on its defensive alignment. "We gave away soft tries and we have to work on that in the next three weeks,” added Feeney. The team is expected in Nairobi tomorrow, rest for one week before resuming training for the Los Angeles and Vancouver tournaments next month. Meanwhile, Blak Blad coach Motto Williams has hailed his side's maturity after a stunning 20-17 victory over Impalaat Kenyatta University on Saturday. The victory takes the varsity side to ninth on the log with 18 points and keeps their hopes of remaining in the top tier alive. Williams was full of praise for his charges decision making and support play despite trailing 12-6 at the interval. "We never lost hope. We kept probing and asking questions of the Impala defence and eventually we delivered in the second half," said Williams, adding that with three matches to go, they are confident of surviving the drop. "This win is big and it will give a lot of confidence for the three remaining fixtures," added Williams. Brian Kadenge and Brian Wahinya scored a try each for the hosts with Kelvin Gathu scoring two conversions and two penalties in the victory. Impala's tries were scored by George Okowa, Alvin Marube and Samson Onsomu with Sammy Oliech kicking over one conversion. The Saracens remain fourth on the log 41 points. Homeboyz thrashed Nakuru 47-5 at Jamhuri Park as Joshua Chisanga scored a brace with Leonard Mugaisi, Michael Wanjala, Mohammed Omollo, Jan Remke and Eliphas Emong scoring a try each. Menengai Oilers thrashed Western Bulls 43-17 as Kabras maintained top spot with a 56-10 crushing of Mwamba in Kakamega as champions KCB secured a bonus point 29-3 win over out-of-form Quins at the Lions' Den in Ruaraka.