It’s no pain, no gain for the Kenyan boxing team, ‘Hit Squad’ as they shifted their training camp to the chilly Nanyuki for heightened preparations ahead of the African Olympics qualifiers set for Senegal from February 20-29 Heavyweight boxer Joshua Wasike revealed that the team, under the tutelage of coaches Benjamin Musa and David Munuhe among others, has been undergoing a punishing three-session training regime to ensure they are ready for what could be a historic moment for Kenya boxing. “The training camp has been tough. We have been training three times in a day—early morning, mid morning and evening—but we are not complaining because we know it will be to our benefit to train hard and have it easy in the qualifiers,” said the Kibra Boxing Club fighter who is seeking to be part of the final team that competes in Dakar. BFK President Anthony ‘Jamal’ Ombok, BFK executive Duncan ‘Sugar Ray’ Kuria on Monday flagged off the team and handed the national flag to team captain Nick Okoth and his deputy Elizabeth Andiego as they departed for the high altitude training camp, after two weeks of training at their Mathare Police Depot base. The ‘Hit Squad’ team was trimmed to 19 boxers from the 28 who were in camp. Bantamweight Martin Oduor and lightweight Ethan Maina  were among the high profile casualties of the selection that the team manager Chripine Peter Onyango termed as the most difficult announcement in my life. “While it is our core responsibility as BFK to select a strong team to represent Kenya in Dakar, Senegal, we will never cease to regret leaving some of you here as we embark on this journey to execute this noble task. “We have no option and have no power to say no. The devotion and motivation you’ve shown in these few days provides the clearest pointer that you are the top cream in the Kenyan boxing scenes. You have all set the pace towards qualification for the Olympics. You are all winners,” said Onyango in a statement when announcing the team. Squad Men: Flyweight: Shafi Bakari, David Karanja; Feather: Nick Okoth, Martin Oduor; Lightweight: Joseph Shigali,Victor Odhiambo; Welter: Boniface Mogunde; Middle:Rayton Okwiri,Cosby Ouma;  Light Heavy: Humphrey Ochieng, Edwin Okongo; Heavy:Elly Ajowi, Joshua Wasike; Super Heavy: Fred Ramogi; Women: Fly: Christine Ongare; Feather:Beatrice Akoth; Light:Everline Akinyi; Welter:Elizabeth Akinyi and Middle: Elizabeth Andiego.