Remain in your farms to minimize damage should desert locusts invade. That is the advice by Kitui county government to farmers. “Our advice to our farmers is to constantly remain in their farms because in case the locusts raid farms and find them unattended, they are likely to cause huge damage," Water and Agriculture executive Emmanuel Kisangau told farmers in Mwingi on Monday. "Farmers must be in the shambas to scare away the locusts should they come calling,”Kisangau said. He spoke to reporters in Kitui town. He said swarms of locusts had invaded Tseikuru, Kyuso and Tharaka wards of Mwingi North subcounty, but noted other areas of Kitui were safe. He said it was not possible to spray them because the locust control command at Masinga in Machakos county had informed them that they had run out of pesticide. “Aerial spraying is not possible because the chemicals have run out. We expect the pesticide stocks to be replenished by the end of Monday. The earliest the spraying can take place is on Tuesday morning subject to delivery of the chemicals,” Kisangau said. He, however, noted that the locusts were unlikely to adversely affect the county's food security as most crops are already mature. “Our concern is the destruction of pasture and foliage for livestock. The locusts are unlikely to destabilise the food security because most of the farm crops are mature and drying,  while the locusts feed on green leaves,” the CEC said. The Star has, however, visited farms where crops such as pigeon peas, black beans (Njahi), which are bi-seasonal, and sorghum have been destroyed by locusts at Kwa Nguru village in Kamuwongo division in Mwingi North last Friday. Last Saturday, Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka expressed his displeasure at how the issue was being handled, saying not much was being done to wipe them out. He described the locust invasion as a national disaster. Speaking during the BBI meeting at Kitui Stadium, Kalonzo said Agriculture CS Peter Munya has assured him that more potent pesticides had been sourced from Japan and Tanzania as whatever chemical previously used was weak. He said it was unacceptable for residents, who were looked forward to a bumper harvest to end up hungry as the government watches. He said if need be, the government should seek international support do deal with the locusts.