Former Jubilee nominated senator Paul Njoroge has said President Uhuru Kenyatta should make a political comeback in 2022 as executive Prime Minister. On Sunday the politician said ODM party leader Raila Odinga was Uhuru's most preferred successor when he retires in 2022. His proposals could trigger a fierce political debate in the country amid claims that the President and the former Prime Minister are scheming for powerful political positions through the BBI crusade. The BBI proposes a raft of interventions to alter the country's system of governance, with politicians pushing for introduction of a parliamentary system with a powerful PM. Seen as a hatchet man for political forces opposed to Deputy President William Ruto, the ex-lawmaker claimed the country's second-in-command has made it impossible for Uhuru to fulfill his mandate. "Consequently, it should be noted that it has been very difficult to keep his expectations and those of Kenyans with regards to his promises on the four pillars of the government agenda due to too much 2022 politics by the deputy president who is meant to be a principal assistant," Njoroge said. Njoroge claimed that the President has lost a lot of time, right from his first term, because of the DP's politics of blackmail and 2022 succession campaigns. By Uhuru coming back as PM, Njoroge says, the President would recover the time wasted during his 10-year tenure "when he served under fear and duress from Ruto". "It should be remembered that throughout their first term in office the President was blackmailed by his deputy, thus forcing his silence instead of taking serious action against massive theft of Kenyans' resources," he said. The senator during his stint in Parliament started a political debate with claims that Ruto was not guaranteed of Mt Kenya's support in 2022 as Uhuru's successor. On Sunday, the former senator, however, did not table any evidence to prove his claims that the DP and his allies had misappropriated public resources. The DP has previously denied having illegally taken any public funds and challenged those with any iota of evidence to submit it to the relevant investigating agencies for action. Njoroge who addressed a press conference at Intercontinental Hotel in Nairobi asked Uhuru and Raila to come out and state clearly that they will be going for the two positions. "It is the highest time now the President and his brother Raila stopped taking Kenyans for a ride and declared their interest in the presidential seat and PM seat in order not to keep Kenyans guessing," he said. During a meeting with Mt Kenya leaders in Sagana last year, Uhuru was quoted as saying that he would not mind being the country's Prime Minister at the end of his tenure in 2022. “I do not know the contents of the BBI report yet I hear people claiming Uhuru Kenyatta wants to become the Prime Minister of Kenya. I wouldn’t mind being in leadership in such a post, though let us deal with the current situation first,” Uhuru said on November 15. The President spoke before the BBI report was unveiled at Bomas in what appeared to be a swipe at his critics who had claimed he was scheming to remain in power. Following Uhuru's remarks, Narc Kenya party leader Martha Karua told him off saying the Constitution bars him from extending his stay in office. “I saw my brother Uhuru saying he wouldn’t mind being a Prime Minister. Guess what? Let us be frank and not mislead each other. Let us be bold enough because a good friend is someone who tells you the truth. The term limit (in Kenya) is to ensure that nobody presides over the government for over two terms,” Karua said. Edited by R.Wamochie