 An NGO has translated the BBI report into the Kikuyu language and is distributing copies for free to people in the villages. Catherine Irungu, the national chairperson of Sauti Mashinani said they have translated the document into Kiswahili, Kikuyu, Luo, Luhya and Kamba among other languages to make civic education easy. The organisation has been carrying out civic education across the country about the Building Bridges Initiative. She said the translations will make it easy for people to understand the report and give their input. Irungu spoke on Monday when she distributed over 2,000 copies of the report to people in Nyeri markets and bus parks. “We picked the BBI report from the website of the task force, summarised it and prepared a concise version of the report in English. We then went ahead to translate it in other languages so that ordinary Kenyans can understand its content,” Irungu said. She added, “We are doing this to ensure we reach as many people in the grassroots as possible with the information on the report.” Irungu said those working in markets, bus parks and farms should be given an opportunity to read the document and give their input. “So we are engaging our people in structured dialogue and that is why we are here so that we can distribute the BBI report that we have been translating. We shall be back in a week’s time to collect people’s views,” she said. Nyeri open-air-market chairman Francis Nderitu said it was their first time to see the document. He said they have only been hearing about it from politicians. Nderitu said he will read its content and give his views when the time comes. Trader Boniface Gitonga said they will read the document and inform others about the translated version. “Let us not rely on politicians to tell us what is in the document. The best thing is for us to read it so that we can give our recommendations on what we think will be useful to us,” Gitonga said. Matatu driver Daniel King’ori a said the BBI should address issues affecting the economy of ordinary wananchi such as tea, coffee and milk.  edited by p. obuya