Olympian Elizabeth Andiego is targeting qualification to a second Olympic Games tournament in Tokyo, Japan in July. Andiego made history by becoming the first Kenyan female boxer to play at the Olympics when she made her bow at the 2012 London games. Andiego,  middleweight, is among five female fighters who will be fighting at the African Olympic qualifiers set for next week in Dakar, Senegal. "My target, first of all, is to try and qualify for the Olympics. I cannot look beyond that because it will only make me lose focus. There are many fighters aiming for the same thing — qualification — and so I cannot say I will be  targeting an Olympic medal before  I make the team to Tokyo," the Kentrack boxer. Featuring in the London Olympics remains the pinnacle of Andiego's career since she took up boxing at the Kariobangi Social hall gymnasium under the tutelage of former heavyweight professional fighter Dalmas Otieno in 2005. Now, she is  determined  to help upcoming  boxers fulfil their potential in the ring. "It will be my pleasure if more female fighters qualify for international games like the Olympics," said Andiego, who will co-captain Hit Squad to Dakar alongside featherweight pugilist Nick Okoth. "That is why I try to mentor upcoming boxers back in Kayole, telling them to be committed in their training and one day, their dreams will come true." Meanwhile, the 33-year-old orthodox boxer has appealed to corporates and the government to support the sport at the grassroots. She observed that Boxing Federation Of Kenya has been vibrant and determined to take the sport back to the good old days by intensifying their activities and this calls for additional resources. "For us to sustain the sport, we need support form all stakeholders. The current BFK officials are focused and if they get support from corporates and the government, more boxers can be helped to achieve their dreams,"she said. A team of  13 boxers, five female and eight male are expected to make the final team that will travel to Senegal.