Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju yesterday underwent surgery and was airlifted to Karen hospital in Nairobi after he suffered chest and abdominal injuries in a road crash. Five other people who survived the accident were admitted to Kijabe mission hospital in critical condition. The Jubilee SG was among 18 people injured at Magina on the Nakuru-Nairobi highway in an accident involving a matatu, a saloon car and his Toyota Prado. “As the matatu was trying to avoid hitting the saloon car (KCS 235W), it swerved to the other traffic lane thereby colliding head-on with the motor vehicle reg number Toyota Prado (KCH 504), which was having Tuju on board,” a police signal sent yesterday at noon read. The car was ferrying Tuju to the burial of the late retired president Daniel arap Moi while the matatu is believed to have been heading to Nairobi. Tuju was with a driver and a bodyguard at the time of the accident. Tuju’s driver Austin Oindo was admitted with a fractured right leg. The 33-year-old matatu driver Bernard Kariuki was left unconscious with a fractured leg. He was put on a life support machine yesterday. Tuju’s bodyguard Charles Oyaro, 46, suffered a broken right hand and was admitted to Kijabe hospital. “Adiella Nalusu had chest injuries and Jane Muthoni aged 30 years had head injuries,” the report said. The police report added that the remaining 12 passengers in the matatu were also rushed to Kijabe mission hospital where they are admitted in stable condition. “The scene was visited and documented and all the vehicles involved towed to station yard awaiting inspection,” the police report added. Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed was among the first responders and helped those injured got to Kijabe hospital. A top official at the hospital added that the injured remained at the hospital with the sports CS who ensured they was admitted and the hospital staff was taking care of them. Tuju was later airlifted to Karen hospital after complaining of chest pains for further treatment.