Nairobi residents will have an opportunity to give their views on the recent take over of the county by the National Government as a round of public participation is scheduled to be held at ward levels. The forums have been organised by the Devolution Ministry and the Nairobi County Government. This comes after the Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko on Tuesday handed over four key county functions to the National Government following an agreement signed at State House. The public participation will take place on Wednesday, March 4, 2020, across all 17 subcounties between 9.00 am and 1.00 pm. At the same time, the main forum will be held at the Kenya School of Government for the public to present their views. In Dagoretti North, the forum will be held at Muslim Primary School, Dagoretti South - Waithaka Social Hall, Embakasi Central -Kayole Two Social Hall, Embakasi East - Embakasi Social Hall and in Embakasi West - Sub County Administration Grounds in Umoja One. In Embakasi North, it will be done at - Dandora Three Social Hall, Embakasi South -Mukuru Health Centre in Imara Daima , Makadara - Jericho Social Hall, Ruaraka - Ruaraka Resource Centre, Roysambu - Kahawa West Market parking Area and in Kasarani at Maji Mazuri. The residents will also be expected to gather in Kamkunji at the Eastleigh North Social Hall, Langata - Karen Social Hall, Mathare -Undungu Social Hall at Mabatini, Kibra - Joseph Kangethe Social Hall, Westlands-Parklands and in Starehe at the Kariokor Social Hall. The landmark agreement signed Sonko and Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa in concurrence with President Uhuru Kenyatta was made in line with Article 187 of the Constitution. The key functions taken over by the national government include Health, Transport, Public Works and Planning. Sonko is facing corruption charges and has been barred by the court from accessing his office at City Hall. He is also facing an impeachment which is scheduled to be debated at the County Assembly of Nairobi next week.