Emmanuel Bundi steered Swamibapa to a comfortable victory over Kongonis in the opening game of the Nairobi Invitational Cricket League (NICL) T20 tournament at Nairobi Jafferys yesterday. The hosts restricted Kongonis to 110 for 8, after a fantastic display from seamers Bundi and Nehemiah Odhiambo, who shared all but two of the eight wickets that fell in Kongonis’ innings. Bundi was the chief destroyer with 4 for 20 with Odhiambo putting on 2 for 29. Swamibapa chased down the target with 10 balls to spare after some impressive display from the middle order batsmen. Upon losing the toss, Swamibapa bowlers reduced Kongonis batting order to 48 for 3 in 9.3 overs. Chris Childs then came to the rescue with a crucial knock of 53 off same number of balls along with Tony Ochieng, who played a lively innings of 21-leading Kongonis 110 in 20 overs. Ochieng was Bundi’s third scalp in the 18th over with the board on 96. Openers Nicholas Oluoch and Joseph Onyango were his first scalps. His fourth wicket was Paul Anjere, the last in the inning. Swamibapa started their chase poorly with both openers Naman Patel and Rushab Patel back in the pavilion in the opening 12 balls with the only four on the board. The inning was, however, steadied by Irfan Karim (34) and Maurice Ouma (30) with a 64 runs stand for the third wicket. The two fell in quick succession leaving them on 71 for 4 with six overs to play. Bundi was the last wicket to fall before James Ngoche (28) and Francis Mutua (4) saw them past the finish line with a 29 runs stand. Bundi was delighted with his performance but gave credit to his teammates. “It was a good show considering that we haven’t been in action for a while. But all said and done, it was a team effort and I am glad that we supported each other,” Bundi said. At Samaj School, visitors Sir Ali Muslim Club beat hosts SCLPS by 6 runs on D/L method to also begin their title guest on a positive note. Batting first, Sir Ali scored 95 for 3 before the rains stopped the match with seven overs to play. This forced the hosts target to be reversed to 74. Faiz Ahmed had showed some impressive performance with the bat with an unbeaten 54 off 36 balls. Sir Ali lost wickets in intervals but Ahmed steadied the inning to give them a comfortable stay in the middle. In reply, Niraj Patel (29) and Kishore Bhanderi (28) tried to give SCLPS an opening win but that was not to be as Sir Ali players played their hearts out in the nine overs they were in the middle. 