The number of betting houses in Kenyan is constantly increasing, and many bettors are finding it hard to keep up with the pace at which the industry keeps expanding. As new sportsbooks continue to emerge, more options are made available to bettors. It is not uncommon for bettors to be eager to bookmakers that offer the best services. This guide gives you insights on how to choose the best betting site, irrespective of your betting style, preferred sports or favourite mode of gambling. Licensed Betting Site Licenses and legitimacy are a big deal when it comes to online gambling houses. This goes for both local and international sportsbook. A regulated bookmaker displays its license on its page, so you don’t have to search endlessly for it. This also means the sportsbook is less likely to be involved in illegal or shady business. And that’s the kind of site you want to be on. Some of the licensed Kenyan sportsbook include 22Bet, Bet365, Betway and MozzartBet. Intuitive Website or Mobile App Whether you prefer to bet on your computer or mobile phone, you must be able to navigate a bookie’s website with ease. Does the page take ages to load? Do you find it hard to find certain tabs or information on the page? Is the website appealing and makes you feel at home? All these contribute to your user experience on the page. Nowadays, many bookies have native mobile apps to make betting easier for their customers. These apps are usually available to download on the bookie website or app stores, depending on the device you use. Sports List and Market Volume While some punters like to explore and bet with multiple bookmakers, others prefer to keep a single betting account. If you fall into the latter group, you should consider joining a sportsbook with a wide range of sports market and betting options. If your favourite sport is football, make sure the bookie offers a market that covers all the leagues and competitions. If you like to dabble into other sports, be sure there is a long list of options. Besides the betting market, the odds are also an important factor. Top bookmaker offers competitive odds and you don’t want to place bets with betting houses that offer poor odds. Currently, Betin Kenya is one of the prominent betting firms. Good Incentives and Fair Terms The large number of sportsbook means each betting house have to compete for customers. Punters benefit from this completion because they are offered regular promotions to invite them to sign up and keep them. Before you join a sports betting website, check the incentives on offer and make sure you will be getting good deals. It is not enough to check the promotions. Also, probe deeper by checking the terms. So many bookies offer attractive bonuses which are not likely to yield profit in the long run. Available Payment Options Avoid betting with a sportsbook that doesn’t allow you to deposit or withdraw with ease. While betting online, you would need to make several transactions and a good bookie should make this process easy for you. Check for the payment options available before you sign up on any bookie website.