The transfer of four key functions of the Nairobi administration to the national government means the county will give up Sh20 billion of its 2019-20 budget. An analysis of the budget and the functions Governor Mike Sonko signed off shows that he will be left with only Sh13 billion of the Sh36.9 billion to manage. The governor, who faces corruption charges and an impeachment motion, relinquished; health, transport, planning and development and public works and utility services. The four roles taken over from Sonko’s administration are the backbone of any county. In Nairobi, they take a huge chunk of the budget and are the key revenue earners. In the budget, health services received the lion’s share of the allocation at Sh7.4 billion. County health services encompasses management of health facilities and pharmacies, promotion of primary health care, licensing and control of food vendors, veterinary services, cemeteries, funeral parlours and crematoria. Public Works and Transport got Sh4.8 billion. It includes county roads, street lighting, traffic and parking, public road transport and ferries and harbours, excluding the regulation of international and national shipping. Some Sh5.5 billion was allocated to planning and development services under the Finance and Planning department. The function takes care of statistics, land survey and mapping, boundaries and fencing, housing and electricity, gas and energy regulation. Public works and auxiliary services, which includes management of storm water and water and sanitation, was allocated Sh2 billion. The county assembly, an independent arm of the government, received Sh2.9 billion. This leaves the governor with about Sh13.1 billion to control. Sonko’s administration will now be in charge of Agriculture (management of crop and animal husbandry, livestock sale yard and county abattoirs), control of air and noise pollution, trade development (markets, local tourism, trade and licensing) and cultural activities (betting, racing and liquor licensing). City Hall will be in charge of animal control and welfare (including licensing of dogs), firefighting, pre-primary education and control of drugs and pornography. On Tuesday, Sonko signed the agreement transferring the functions with Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa. President Uhuru Kenyatta, Attorney General Paul Kihara and Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka were present at the ceremony. The Fourth Schedule of the Constitution gives counties 14 functions to perform. A deed of transfer gazetted by CS Wamalwa states that the county government shall fund all the functions transferred. “Financing for the functions herein shall be drawn from either or both the Consolidated Fund and the County Revenue Fund. The Nairobi City County Government shall ensure that the transferred are fully funded from the County Revenue Fund. Sonko was barred from accessing his City Hall office after he was charged with graft in the loss of Sh357 billion from the county in December last year. Already, a notice of impeachment motion has been filed against him in the county assembly by minority chief whip and Makongeni MCA Peter Imwatok. Imwatok accuses Sonko of committing irregularities and illegalities when procuring services, failure to appoint a deputy and random and erratic sacking and suspensions of county staff. (edited by O. Owino)