 The High Court has validated the will of a former Permanent Secretary's widow denying her daughter-in-law a share of the Sh177 million family property. Justice George Odunga of Machakos ruled last week that Catherine Katanga was not a dependant and was therefore not entitled to inherit Catherine Nduku Malinda's estate left by John David Munyao Malinda, a former PS and director of personnel in the office of the Vice-President in Jomo Kenyatta government. Katanga had contested the will written in 2012 in which Nduku Malinda, who died in 2015, left her estate to daughters Consolata Ndinda, Coletta Ndunge and Beatrice Wavinya, another daughter-in-law and a caregiver, leaving nothing to her only son Martin Kitisya. The former PS, who died in 1989, had in his will named his son as the administrator of his estate. Some of the properties were on Wood Avenue and Jabavu Lane in Kilimani, Nairobi. Nduku Malinda said she disinherited Kitisya because he misused his power of attorney and had sold her assets without her consent. Justice Odunga ruled: “The decision to disinherit her son could not invalidate a will. That only affects Malinda’s estate, not his wife's”. Katanga, a mother of two, had argued that she and her children were entitled to the estate since her husband was dead. She said she and the children had been locked out of the only home they knew for over 20 years in Mwala Kibau after her husband's death. She said her father-in-law had, as per Kamba tradition, stated in his will that her husband would inherit the property. “For the last five years, we’ve been locked out. We had furnished and refurbished the house,” she told the court. She said that she and Kitisya had left their jobs to run the family businesses in Machakos and Nairobi and also take care of her mother-in-law since two of her sisters-in-law live outside the country. “Kitisya was asked to leave his senior position at Rank Xerox to take over the management of his late father's estate. The family demands also forced me to leave a well-paying job at the US Embassy to take care of my ailing mother-in-law,” she said. Sister-in-law Ndinda dismissed her assertion, saying she was the one who took care of her mother, "who eventually died in my arms". She accused her brother and his wife of misusing her mother's estate and living lavishly. They even travelled to Turkey to watch Formula One, China and the USA. Kitisya, she told the court, sold her mother’s property in Kilimani for Sh4 million and wanted to sell another one on Wood Avenue for Sh22 million in 1997. “In 2008 he demolished the house there and constructed apartments without (mother's) consent then attempted to have four of the apartments transferred to himself without mother’s knowledge,” she explained. She said “When this failed, Kitisya sold one of the apartments. He received Sh1.5 million as deposit and Sh1.9 million later. “Sh7,437,703 was remitted into his personal account and our late mother had to borrow money for her upkeep. I had to settle her debts". This prompted his mother to revoke the power of the attorney. Ndinda blamed her brother for running down Distributors & Haulers Petroleum Ltd, a family company in Machakos to the extent that it accrued Sh19 million debts. “This debt is as a result of not filing statutory returns.  Further, Kitisya  used Sh462,500 monthly rent from Naivas as he wished”. She said the Mwala Kibau house was built by their parents in 1970s. She accused her sister-in-law of influencing her children to believe that their aunts were evil.