Migori Youth coach Robert Ojienda says the 12 new signings will revive his team's push for a place in the Kenya Premier League next season. “We are still in contention for a place in KPL next season. All we need is to put our minds together and maintain our focus. Nothing is impossible,” said Ojienda. He added: “I expect the new signing to compete for places in the starting line up. This will increase competition and performance. Getting promoted to KPL remains achievable.” The team is currently seventh on the log with 33 points—22 behind log leaders Nairobi City Stars and 12 behind second-placed Bidco United. However, Migori Youth have a game at hand. Ojienda promoted Maurice Okeyo, Yusuf Ochieng, Kevin Hagai, Toby Akanga, Clyde Odhiambo, Collins Odhiambo and Mark Ochieng from Migori Youth Talent Academy as he seeks to qualify. “I believe in working with young players. They understand my philosophy because these are players I have worked with before,” added Ojienda. He singled out Mark Ochieng and Haggai as players who will easily break into the first 11 and lead the hunt for goals. “Ochieng was the top scorer during last year's Safaricom Chapa Dimba while Hagai is very promising,” Ojienda continued. Other new signings are Evans Ajema (Sindo United), Alexander Abok (Gor Youth), Samson Otieno (Green Commando), Kevin Ndiwa (Mt Kenya United),  Wycliffe Omonge and Arvin Adoyo (Kenya Police). The high profile departures were NSL top scorer Clinton Okoth who signed for Gor Mahia and Antonio Abwao who joined KCB. Others were Geoffrey Omondi, who signed for Shabana, George Otieno who joined Gor Mahia Youth and Ronald Kiwendo who left for Fortune Sacco. Sindo United snapped Kennedy Ochieng while Raiply signed Ronald Odhiambo. After the weekend break, Migori Youth will resume their NSL campaign against Kenya Police on Sunday at Awendo Green Stadium. “We have not won a game since the second round started. We want to get our campaign back on track against Kenya Police and our target is to get maximum points against the law enforcers,” Ojienda said