Did Deputy President William Ruto dodge a governor who had visited him at his Harambee Annex office over his impending impeachment? An insider has disclosed that the county chief, whose ouster bid by the county assembly has been in the pipeline, sought an audience with the DP to reign in the ward reps to drop the impeachment motion. However, the governor, after camping in the waiting room for more than three hours, was informed that the DP had left the building for a meeting with the President. The governor left the building in a huff, vowing to fight his own war. The source says the county boss has now opted to personally engage the MCAs and has been holding overnight meetings with some of them to drop the bid. Senior politicians have been eager to make their presentations to the Yusuf-Haji led Building Bridges Initiative taskforce as it collects more views from Kenyans to validate its report. However, a bird whispered to Corridors that most of these politicians are waiting for their rivals to make their presentations first before they can appear before the task force to give their views. To appear before the task force, one has to write to the team to be allocated a date and time. So before writing, politicians have been using all means to find out who else has requested for a date and before requesting for their own. Not even the handshake can save politicians from seeking to outdoing each other. It is puzzling just how Kenyan politicians will not waste any minute when they spot an opportunity to get mileage. When Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju was involved in an accident, an opportunity presented itself. One vocal politician rushed to hospital where Tuju and about a dozen other passengers had been admitted. Corridors learnt that the politician offered to clear the bills of all those who were in the matatu, and they were also to get a little pocket money for their transport back home. It was an offer that earned the politician a lot of praise instantly but when some of the patients were discharged, they learnt that the politician had not left any pocket money for them. Detectives are investigating a group of notorious contraband dealers who specialise in the selling of cigarettes meant for export to neighbouring countries. The wanted men are said to have escaped numerous traps laid by the DCI and the taxman who are looking for them over various offences. The group has been working in collaboration with manufacturers of packaging materials. Corridors learnt that the group has moles in law enforcement offices, who have been helping them to evade the long arm of the law. Rogue officers who have been tipping the group over impending raids have been getting some good money in return from the well-oiled gang. A parastatal boss has made life so hard for those working under him to an extent some are contemplating transfers. The man is accused of brandishing a gun whenever employees accost him with questions on his operational decisions. Critics are equally pushed to remain silent by the threats, leaving his co-workers with doubts on whether the fellow is stable mentally. A mole whispered to Corridors that operations at the crucial agency are at times stalled for days in wait for the boss's final word as no one can dare make a move without his input.