The Mandera administration has asked residents to cooperate with its team of planners as they upgrade the county's major towns. The rapid response teams are in the process of enforcing compliance with the various laws and regulations in the towns. Public Service and Devolved Administrations CEC Ahmed Sheikh said the activity will only be successful if fully backed by the residents. Sheikh spoke in Elwak town on Saturday during a public participation session on the roles and responsibilities of the rapid response team. He said there were grossly unplanned settlements in all the urban centres and congestion in Mandera county prior to devolution. But devolution came with massive rural-urban migration in most parts of Mandera, making an already bad situation worse, he said. Subsequently, land grabbing, unplanned constructions with no regard for access roads became rampant. Governor Ali Roba’s administration developed an urban planning blueprint for all major towns to correct the situation. The department's Chief officer Yussuf Didow commended the public for the ir cooperation with the teams. “Our call to residents especially those who will be affected by the exercise is to look at the bigger picture. If the situation is not corrected now then in a few years to come it will be a disaster,” he said. The team will deal with problems of encroachment on road reserves, demolition of illegal makeshift structure and buildings. Others duties include improving solid waste management, opening up access roads to improve emergency response. They will also support the revenue department in apprehending non-compliant persons, drugs and substance abuse control including deterring vending, trafficking and consumption. Elwak resident Mohamed Hussein said that they fully support the initiative. Hussein urged the rapid response team to give prior notice to those who have built on road reserves before proceeding with the demolitions. “The county should execute its mandate without fear of any backlash. Above all, they should communicate in advance,” he said. 