Former East Africa Secondary Schools girls hockey champions Sinyolo and Kisii School have been allowed to take part in this year's games after a one year-ban. The two schools fielded ineligible players during last years regional games at Homa Bay School and were subsequently suspended and then banned. However, on Wednesday, Nyanza regional director of education Limo Chepkawai lifted the ban on the two schools. According to letters sent to the respective principals, the one-year ban on the coaches and games teachers was also lifted. “Given the year's activities of 2020 begin in January/February, it is prudent and fair that your school should be allowed to participate in the activities full length as the ban targeted activities for 2019 irrespective of the month of the ban,” said Chepkawai in his letter. “You are asked to prepare your teams and participate in all activities scheduled for 2020.” Sinyolo Girls principal Hellen Juma welcomed the decision of the ministry of education saying they are committed to competitively participate in the Term One games. “It is good news to the girls and they are focused to give their best performance in the games,” Juma told the Star. Speaking after clinching Biro Lich title earlier this year, Sinyolo coach Aloise Owino said: “We have not been to the nationals for two consecutive years. This time we want to make a comeback and qualify for the East Africa secondary school games. We want to reclaim our regional title which we last won in 2017.” “It is a sigh of relief for us. Sub County rugby championship will be played after half term and that will give us an opportunity to train,” said a Kisii School representative. Sub County games started in the entire Nyanza on Wednesday and conclude on Saturday. However, the two-year bans on Kisii County under 19 champions Gesero Mixed secondary, former East Africa secondary schools under 19 champions Barding High and little-known Simbi football teams still remain. The teams' coaches were also banned.