A man charged with being in possession of ammunition without a firearms certificate was remanded for a month to allow police to investigate what they called a nationwide fake firearms syndicate. They said there are more offenses, more operatives and accomplices are  at large Eric Mosoti Isoe was charged at Makadara law courts with 19 counts of making an unauthorised civilian firearm certificate and having ammunition without a firearms certificate. In a ruling delivered on Wednesday, Chief magistrate Heston Nyaga ordered the accused person to remain in custody for a month until further orders are issued. Mosoti, who was arrested on January 31, risks a maximum of 84 years in prison. He pleaded not guilty to all the 19 charges. He was arrested at Grandpas Hotel along Jogoo road Buruburu area by DCI officers attached to the Trans National Organised Crime Unit. They were acting on an intelligence report. Police opposed d his release on bail or bond saying he was likely to interfere with investigations and with investigations and to abscond court Investigating officer Stephen Kosgei of the DCI headquarters said the case is part of an organised crime ring involving a syndicate operating throughout Kenya. "The accused is believed to be operating a cartel issuing fake firearms certificates and illegal firearms to unsuspecting Kenyans. His civilian ID card shows he is in possession of an unrecovered firearm," his affidavit read. Police said he purported to have a genuine civilian firearm certificate ID card issued to him by the chief licensing officer of the firearm licensing board on July,14,2012. According to an affidavit filed before the court officer recovered 31 rounds of ammunition,2 spent cartridges,10 firearm certificates, 13 civilian firearm certificates ID cards and assorted application forms for firearms certificate. The recovered firearms certificate and the civilian firearm certificate IDs were forwarded to central firearms bureau and confirmed to be fake. The defence said, "Your Honour, the affidavit before this court is speculative and malicious. The investigating officer has judged and convicted my client where no evidence has been rendered to show that the offence occurred." Chief magistrate Heston Nyaga ruled, “As the accused has right to liberty, public safety takes priority." Nyaga gave the investigating officers one month to locate all the missing firearms. He ordered the matter to be mention on March,5 when he is set to also give direction on Mosoti's bond terms. (Edited by V. Graham)