The chief government advisor has been directed to deposit Sh252 million in a case where multiparty hero Kenneth Matiba was compensated for torture. Judge Weldon Korir told the Attorney General to deposit the money in court pending the hearing of reference challenging legal fees demanded by lawyer John Mburu. Mburu had protested a decision by the state to pay the family part of the compensation money secretly despite a court order stopping further payment. Matiba was awarded Sh978 million by the High Court as compensation for torture and the amount at the moment exceeds Sh1.5 billion plus interest. Mburu has protested the move to pay the family and deny him his fees. Justice Isaac Lenaola, at the time a constitutional judge but now with the Supreme Court, awarded the payout. Lenaola also awarded Matiba Sh15 million in damages and for violations suffered, another Sh18.1 million for medical expenses. He said in his ruling that real justice can be expensive and that the compensation was a lesson that no one should suffer like that. Matiba died on April 15, 2018, before the money was paid. There have been fights over the cash since then. Lawyers have accused the state of quietly releasing part of the money to the family without involving them. Matiba had suffered a stroke while in detention on May 26, 1991, but remained in detention without medical attention for almost a week. In his compensation case, the politician had said as a result of the torture and detention he lost business investment worth Sh5 billion. These claims were supported by financial analyst Lawrence Riungu who testified that after the detention, Matiba’s businesses started collapsing. An audit of the estate had revealed that the politician lost more than Sh2 billion in commercial real estate and a further Sh2 billion in privately held shares. On June 12 last year, Julie, Susan and Raymond Matiba asked the court to replace their father's name with theirs in the suit papers to enable them to follow up the compensation money and ensure the estate does not suffer. They claimed that lawyer Mburu did not act on their instructions to have them enjoined in the suit in place of their father, leading to "jeopardy of their father's estate with respect to the execution of the compensation money". They wanted to be brought on board in the case to pursue the money awarded to their father, ascertain the lawyer's legal fees and settle it.