Former national cricket team skipper Steve Tikolo has a new job after being named the new Tanzania senior team head coach. The most decorated Kenyan cricketer takes up the post this week after agreeing to a two-year contract, Tanzania Cricket Association (TCA) said. His appointment comes less than a month since he parted ways with Uganda Cricket, where he was the national team head coach. The former prolific batsman said: "It is a massive honour to be appointed the head coach of the Tanzania national cricket team. I have followed Tanzania's progress with keen interest and I am extremely excited to assist the team in reaching the goals that they are capable of." "I look forward to continuing the ongoing development of current players whilst also looking towards the future and developing some new bright stars from within the talent pool of Tanzanian cricket." Tikolo, who was unveiled to the Tanzania media on Wednesday said he was looking at both the long and short term goals in the two years he will be at the helm of the regions third-best team. “The long term goal is definitely working towards getting this team to the biggest cricket stage — the World Cup. That will take a lot of work and might even take longer but the most important thing is to look at short term goals which include doing well in the Africa Division Two,” he said. He added that he will use the first six months of his contract to gauge the current crop of players and build working relationships with the clubs. “I will be lying if I say that I will turn the fortunes of Tanzania cricket without involving every stakeholder. I will need the support of the clubs to get to know the players. It’s from the clubs that we will get to know the players and what they can do,” he said TCA chairman Premji Pindoria said of Tikolo: "He has a wealth of experience and we have been very impressed with his passion and coaching philosophy. He has a clear idea of what is required to take the team forward." Pindoria promised to give Tikolo all the support he will need to enable his stint in Tanzania become comfortable and successful. Tanzania becomes the third country that Tikolo will be handling since his retirement from the game in 2013. Before moving to Uganda in 2016, he had coached the Kenyan team for two years. His appointment comes four months since Rwanda signed up Martin Suji as their head coach.