 Garissa Governor Ali Korane has warned leaders and youths against plans to disrupt a BBI rally to be held in the town on Sunday. Some leaders led by Garissa Township MP Aden Duale and residents have said they don't have time for the Building Bridges Initiative unless the teacher crisis in Northeastern region is addressed. The Teachers Service Commission has withdrawn non-locals teachers from the region following spates of terror attacks targeting the tutors. Duale said the crisis, which has caused closure of some schools, must first be resolved before the region can throw its weight behind the BBI. “For us to discuss the BBI, we must candidly discuss why schools are closing in Northeastern and our children are being denied the right to quality education," Duale said at the weekend. But Korane on Thursday said the education crisis was being handled by relevant authorities and that it was wrong for leaders to link it with the "national discourse" that is the BBI. He said Northeastern residents cannot afford to be left behind in the BBI debate. "As leaders in this region, we have expressed our displeasure with the action taken by TSC and this issue is being addressed by the relevant government organs," Korane said. He said leaders from the region had already met Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i and would meet President Uhuru Kenyatta to discuss the education crisis. “It will, therefore, be wrong for any leader to organise youths to attempt to disrupt the Garissa BBI rally under the pretext of protesting against the TSC. I want to advise youths to shun such plans and avoid politicians out to misuse them for personal gain because they will only have themselves to blame,” Korane said. The governor was speaking at the Garissa Farmers Training Centre when he disbursed Sh35 million grant to farmers to boost agribusiness under the Kenya Climate Smart Agriculture project. There have been mounting tension over the BBI rally with those opposed to it saying it was not the region's priority. Korane, who is the convener of the meeting, urged police to firmly deal with anyone intending to cause trouble. “I assure our people that issues affecting our region from education, security, livestock and infrastructure will be incorporated in our recommendations to the BBI task force. Our people should turn up for the rally in large numbers," Korane said. The climate smart agriculture is a project being undertaken jointly by the national government, the county government and the World Bank. It seeks to help farmers improve agricultural productivity while combating climate-related risks. Korane urged locals to adpt crop farming due to climate change that posed a threat to pastoralism. “I want to urge farmers to prudently utilise the funds for the intended purposes to ensure the success of the programme. This will not only ensure wealth creation but also food security in our county that has often experienced perennial drought and famine,” the governor said  edited by peter obuya