A photo has been doing the rounds on social media purporting that opposition leader Raila Odinga had met with former President of the United States of America Barack Obama during his ongoing US trip. The Star moved in to verify the claims and established it was false. How it started A Facebook user who goes by the name Dr Auma Obama, which is also Barack Obama’s step-sister's name, had posted the photo on her Facebook wall. Her followers commented indicating that it was great for the two to meet. Though Auma did not indicate when the two met, her followers hit her wall expressing their joy for the two ‘blood’ brothers to meet. Others went ahead to ask that a meeting between Obama and General Miguna Miguna be facilitated. Whereas it is true, Raila is in the US, the claims of him meeting Obama are untrue. How it happened The photo circulating was rather that of Raila when he met up with Obama at the Villa Rosa Kempinski Hotel in 2018. In July 2018 when Obama visited Kenya after serving as the President, he met Raila in a private meeting. The photo was then released by those close to him. Obama’s meeting with Raila came on the backdrop of his meeting with President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House. The following day, Obama was scheduled to head to K’Ogello, Siaya County, where he would open a sports centre under Sauti Kuu Foundation; an initiative by his step-sister, Dr Auma Obama. The photo branded courtesy has since then been used in many other articles. We further sought confirmation from Raila’s personal assistant Dennis Onyango, who confirmed that his boss had not met Obama. Raila, who doubles as the African Union special envoy for Infrastructure left the country last week on Saturday headed to the US. According to his schedule, Raila was to attend the National Prayer Breakfast to be held on Wednesday in Washington, DC. He was also scheduled to speak at the International Luncheon on reconciliation, organised by the US National Prayer breakfast team before the prayers. Later on, Raila was to brief African Ambassadors on the Continent’s Infrastructure and continental trade agenda. On his Twitter page, Raila confirmed to have attended a round-table meeting with Ambassadors from Africa at the AU Mission to Washington where their discussion centered on intra-African trade with infrastructure as a catalyst as well as securing capital and knowledge transfer in key sectors for use on the continent. He later indicated he had joined hands with President Uhuru Kenyatta and shared with the world our journey to reconciliation during the historic International Luncheon in Washington.