The prosecution wants a Nairobi businesswoman arrested after she did not show up in court to respond to fraud charges. Farrah Ali Mohammed's co-accused Ahmed Rashid Jibril was charged in January with conspiring to defraud city businessman Francis Nyaga Njeru of land valued at Sh150 million. Mohammed was to take plea on Monday but Principal Magistrate Bernard Ochoi was told that she could not make it because of health reasons. However, no medical reports were presented in court to justify her absence, prompting the prosecution to apply for a warrant of arrest. The court will decide on the prosecution’s request next Monday. Jibril denied the charge before Milimani resident magistrate R. Aganyo on January 21 . Mohammed was to take plea on January 21 but she was said to be in Canada. The court was told she was ailing and could not travel and thus requested for another day to take the plea. Jibril, who is the chairman of a local airline denied six fraud charges. Ochoi rejected an application by Jibril to have his passport back to travel overseas. “That application can only be determined by the trial court,” he said. The prosecutor, however, feared that Jibril could still travel abroad, claiming he has two passports and promised to produce documents to substantiate the claim. Jibril was granted Sh2 million bond or Sh700,000 bail. Mohammed and Jibril allegedly conspired to defraud Njeru of his LR NO:20273/1 IR 176998/1 land on October 19, 2015. They are jointly charged with others, not in court, with conspiring to defraud Njeru of his 1.59 hectares at the Inland Container Depot on Mombasa Road. The two are also charged with entering into a tenancy lease agreement with China Road and Bridges Corporation purporting that they were the registered owner of the land, a fact they knew to be false. They are further charged with being in possession of the land in a manner likely to cause a breach of peace, and making a false document and obtaining registration of land by false pretences. The two allegedly made a title deed in the name of ARJ Capital Limited purporting it to be a valid document issued and signed by land registrar Peter Mburu. Njeru had sued China Road and Bridges Corporation for allegedly occupying the land illegally. ARJ Capital Limited, owned by Jibril and Mohammed, then moved to court to be joined in the suit as an interested party. ARJ had leased the land to China Road and Bridges Corporation. Justice B.M. Eboso, however, declined to grant ARJ Capital Limited the application, saying their documentary evidence on ownership of the land was fraudulent. The ruling directed the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to investigate all the affidavits presented in court by ARL Capital Limited to establish if a criminal offence was committed. Eboso noted that Njeru revealed that the Department of Lands had categorically stated that the documents by ARL Capital Limited claiming ownership of the land were fraudulent. Edited by R.Wamochie