A defamation case by Governor Hillary Barchok against a Bomet resident failed to proceed for the third time because the county chief did not attend court. Barchok sued Dominic Kiplangat, 31, for publishing obscene information against him on social media and undermining his authority as a public officer. Kiplangat appeared before Bomet senior resident magistrate Kipkirui Kibelion in October and was charged for defamation and undermining a public officer. The court documents say that between September 22 and October 14 within Bomet Central, without lawful excuse he published on Facebook the words: "Does your boss knows he is the kabana because of our beloved late mother's death certificate? That he pays now without pain a single conjugal to a tune of Sh2 million." The charge sheet says that the message was circulated to undermine the lawful authority of Barchok, a public officer. Kiplangat court documents also say that during the same period, he posted similar information on his page which was aimed at defaming the governor. He pleaded not guilty to both charges and was released on Sh30,000 cash bail. The case was to be mentioned on October 31 last year. But Kiplangat said that the county chief approached him to make peace with a view to withdrawing the case. He said he has been attending the court sessions regularly whenever there is mention but the governor skips them. The defendant said Barchok's lawyers always say that they are yet to get formal communication from the complainant. “The governor approached me through the county chairman and we even met at his home. We agreed to forgive one another and he also assured me he will withdraw the case,” Kiplangat said. Kiplangat said it is unfortunate that the governor was taking him in circles with no communication. The second mention of the case was slated for January 27 but the governor again failed to show up, forcing the magistrate to postpone it February 17. The next mention has been set for May 14. Kiplangat has expressed concerns over the reluctance by the governor to withdraw the case despite promising to do so more than four months since he was charged. Lawyer Desmond Leteipa who is representing the governor has defended him saying he has always been held up during such court mentions. “He has been busy with office duties. Every time the case comes up in court it coincides with his official engagements,” he told the Star.