Ex-politician and farmer Jackson Kibor is feuding with his sons over the ownership and use of more than 1,000 acres of his land in Uasin Gishu county. Kibor, 86, says his sons are “very stubborn” and illegally, without his permission, took over part of the farm at Kebenes area in Soy constituency. Kibor stormed the farm and was shocked that his sons had leased part of it to outsiders without consulting him. “I will kick them out including the outsiders and I will not allow anyone to set foot on the farm that belongs to me,” Kibor said at his home near Chepkoilel. He accused his sons and the outsiders of trespassing. “My sons and outsiders are trespassing on the land that I normally plough and where I grow maize and wheat. They have to leave or I kick them out," Kibor said. For several years, Kibor has fought several court battles with his sons over the property. He has successfully divorced two of his four wives in court. Kibor says he is still strong and able to use his land and his sons cannot take it when he is alive. “They have to work hard and go buy their own land because that land is mine," Kibor said. Kibor, a wealthy man, owns more than than 3,000 acres Uasin Gishu, Trans Nzoia and parts of Elgeyo Marakwet counties. Kibor said he had gone to check on the land to start preparing for this year’s planting when he found strangers there and ordered them to vacate before he takes unspecified action. “My sons do not own any part of the vast land that I bought many years ago and they have no right whatsoever to decide for me on how the property should be utilised. They cannot lease the land they do not own," he said. But the sons led by Elkana Kipleting denied taking over the land illegally or leasing it to outsiders. “It’s true we are using the farm. We are cultivating in readiness for the planting season which about to begin,” Kipleting told journalists in Eldoret. He said they have families to feed, educate and clothe, saying they no longer rely on their father for their livelihoods. The son said he would not engage in any confrontation with their father over the land but he has to recognise the fact that they are adults with needs for their families. Three years ago Kibor was arrested and disarmed over claims that he had attempted to shoot one of his sons, Ezekiel Kibor, during a quarrel over the same land. Kibor denied the allegations and told the police that he drew the gun in self-defence because his sons wanted to beat him up. (Edited by V. Graham)