Good evening, A section of MPs now wants all the Chinese airlines suspended from landing at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. Led by Minority leader John Mbadi the MPs said it was a careless move for those responsible to have cleared a China Southern Airline plane on Kenyan soil despite the scare of the coronavirus outbreak. Mbadi it was laughable that the Health ministry cleared all the 239 passengers and asked them to 'self-quarantine' without proper monitoring mechanisms. Here are the stories making headlines on the Star this evening. ODM Party leader Raila Odinga has hit back at Deputy President William Ruto for hiding behind the 'hustling' tag. Without naming names, Raila said it was unfortunate that some politicians have resorted to inciting their constituents when corrupt public officers are sacked. Ruto has previously insisted that he can account for his wealth but has refused to state how much he is worth. We are treating Kenyans in Wuhan in a more delicate and sensitive way than China flights arriving in Kenya. These were the words of Foreign affairs CS Raychelle Omamo who defended the arrival of China flights to Kenya. "Our focus are on the students locked down there...we have to deal with them in a more delicate and sensitive way given that they are in the epicentre. We have to give them special attention, monitor their well being constantly," she said. 100 staff members of the Kenya Power Lighting Company have been sacked in the past one year over fraudulent activities. Company CEO Bernard Ngugi on Thursday revealed that the employees were fired for theft of electricity, among other crimes. "In the past 12 months, we have had to lay off close to 100 staff members. They were fired for perpetrating fraudulent activities such as illegal connections, electricity theft, vandalism, collusions with fraudsters and cartels as well as conflict of interest," Ngugi said. A woman who is alleged to have killed her Belgian friend whose body is yet to be found has been arraigned in court. Lucy Waithera was on Thursday brought before Justice Daniel Ogembo but did not plead to murder charges as the prosecution is seeking time to conduct a mental assessment. Justice Ogembo has directed that Waithera be taken for mental assessment and she will be charged on March 4. Education CS George Magoha has withdrawn his case against the embattled UoN Vice-Chancellor Stephen Kiama after they reached an out of court settlement. Justice Maureen Onyango on Thursday marked the case as settled. Last month the court allowed CS Magoha and Stephen Kiama to negotiate and resolve the leadership crisis of the UoN Vice-chancellor.