A Homa Bay administrator is on a fault-finding mission and has pledged to ‘discipline’ chiefs from his area. The man who brags of his connection with Deputy President William Ruto has pledged to teach 'disloyal' administrators a lesson should they dare fail to dance to his tune. Some of his demands are that chiefs provide for his breakfast and beer. The man has a penchant for asking for money to clear his bills and even makes calls to be sent cash.  The officer is hardly a month in his new station was heard saying that with DP behind him, even Interior CS Fred Matiang'i has no power over him. Members of an influential Parliamentary committee are not a bit ashamed after suspending House rules to lock themselves in a room with witnesses during a committee sitting. They had first chased away journalists, the serjeant-at-arms and even members of the secretariat from what had started as an open committee sitting. Corridors on Wednesday heard one MP boasting they had to meet in camera with witnesses or else their constituencies would have missed out on project allocations that are being proposed in the coming budget. Corridors also learnt that every MP managed to arrange at least one multi-million project in their area. Maybe it is time House Speaker Justin Muturi finds out how deals are cut in committees. Is a committee charged with vetting a top state official trying to vet candidates on grounds of their pliability to the whims of the state?  This could be true considering the events at the panel. A mole whispers to Corridors of Power that they have a situation where some applicants are not even asked a single question. The process itself has been shrouded in mystery, begging the question whether the person being sought will meet the standards set by the initial holder of the post. Those following the shocking developments say it's dangerous that the country has sunk so low that only sycophants stand a chance of getting State jobs. The war against locusts seems to be taking a political angle. An MP from Northeastern was overheard saying the insects did not catch the attention of top government officials when they were ravaging his county. He is bitter that they were just asked by former CS Mwangi Kiunjuri to take photos of the insects yet when they descended on Meru and Kisumu, leaders called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to declare the invasion a national disaster. He argued that fodder for animals is devoured as the region is not a breadbasket.