The country was on Monday evening hit with devastating news of the death of 14 students during a stampede at Kakamega Primary school. Another 39 students were injured and rushed to the Kakamega County Referral Hospital. Pupils reportedly started running out of the classrooms after a bell rung to go home. Some pupils said a teacher, who was behind the pupils, ordered them to leave quickly and they started running down the stairs. The pupils in front stumbled and fell and those behind also tripped. On Sunday, at least 20 people were crushed to death and 16 others injured during an outdoor religious service in Tanzania. Worshippers were attending a Pentecostal service at a stadium in the northern town of Moshi on Saturday evening when the incident occurred. Moshi district commissioner Kippi Warioba said attendees rushed forward to be anointed with blessed oil. The service was held by pastor Boniface Mwamposa, who refers to himself as "the apostle". Survivors said Mwamposa told hundreds of people gathered at the service to pass through an area where "blessed oil" had been poured over the floor. Another deadly stampede happened on January 7 with at least 56 people killed and 200 injured at the funeral of general Qasem Soleimani in Kerman, Iran. A stampede is an occasion when many people suddenly all move quickly and in an uncontrolled way, usually in the same direction at the same time, especially because of fear. Many people are not aware of what to do during a stampede because most times people are confused. Here are steps to follow to survive a stampede: • Check your surroundings When you enter a building or a room, it's advisable to check your surroundings. For example, check for doors, emergency exits and windows and draw up a map in your brain in case of an emergency. In case of commotion, check your surroundings and keep your eyes open at all times. Quickly look around to see if you should move forward or backwards. • Retain your balance When caught up in a crowd, it's hard to try and go towards a different direction so it's important to keep your balance as the crowd moves you. Also move away from walls or barriers as chances of you climbing the wall are minimal. • Don't do what the person in front of you is doing In case of a stampede, try not to do what the person in front or beside is doing without understanding why as it might not be the best solution. It's best if you look for an alternative way out. • Leave as fast as possible when you notice a commotion This can save you from being caught up in the commotion or stampede. • Breathe During a stampede, you might not remember to breathe as you are looking for a way out. Always breathe to avoid passing out or suffocating. • Be your brother's keeper Try and help the people around you as some may be too weak to move or are injured but also check how bad the situation is. Sometimes you might want to help but end up getting hurt in the process so analysing the situation is important. • If you feel uncomfortable in a crowd, it's the best time for you to leave and look for a lesser crowded area. And also, keep your arms crossed on your chest as it helps with your movement and protects you as well.