The Building Bridges train has left the station. Many Kenyans hope for a smooth ride. However, a remark by Opposition leader Raila Odinga during a Kitui rally that the train could be running without brakes has shocked many Kenyans. Could the BBI be plunging Kenyans into deep seas when the driver is well aware that the brakes have malfunctioned? Well. With Kenyans holding their breath as the train gathers pace, one thing to be sure of is heavy casualties along the way now that the man in charge has confirmed there are no brakes. They say every Kenyan for him/herself and God for all of us. A section of MCAs in a Jubilee dominated county assembly is up in arms over the reluctance of some top party officials to endorse changes in the leadership of the house. The ward reps claim the officials have rejected their list of preferred leaders despite collecting signatures to effect the changes. Some of them claim one party official is too close to an MCA whom they have voted to replace in the new list submitted to the head office. The angry MCAs have now given them seven days to endorse the list or they petition the party leader — President Uhuru Kenyatta — over their conduct. Two relatives of a second-term ODM governor are annoying residents with their aggressive attitude towards their colleagues at the county administration. For starters, the two were hired into job groups for which they're unqualified. The two bully everyone given their proximity to the county chief — who is known to award contracts to himself and relatives through proxies. Their impunity is so blatant that a fly on the wall saw them load illicit liquor sourced from a neighbouring country into one of the governor’s chase cars — for sale in local dens. Just what is happening at KPLC? Cases of high bills and prolonged blackouts have become the order of the day for its customers. This is the second week running that several estates in Nairobi including Baba Dogo and Huruma are going without electricity. The power supplier claims illegal connections are rife in the areas and that was the reason it disconnected them. But residents claim those behind the illegal connections are the company’s own officials who have been raking in money from them. Those who are connected have been receiving abnormal bills running into thousands of shillings. Those who have been paying Sh1,000 per month were billed Sh9,000 last month. Maybe it is time the detectives move in to unearth what is happening at the company and save the suffering Wanjiku.