President Uhuru Kenyatta is scheduled to outline measures the government will take to address the education crisis in Northeastern Kenya. ODM leader Raila Odinga said the President told him he will issue a comprehensive statement on the matter in the coming days. “I talked to Uhuru before I came here and next week you will have an answer,” Raila said. He made the remarks during the sixth consultative forum of the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) in Garissa on Sunday. There has been a growing education crisis in Northeastern following mass transfer of non-local teachers due to insecurity. Northeastern leaders and educationists have been calling on the government to take disciplinary action against the Teachers Service Commission officials who are effecting the changes. Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers secretary general Akelo Misori, however, welcomed the move saying their safety was crucial. TSC has already transferred all non-local teachers from Garissa county over insecurity fears, with those for tutors in Mandera and Wajir counties underway. Raila said teachers should be posted in the region immediately to replace those who have been transferred because of insecurity. “There is nothing as bad as going to school and not finding teachers. It is very saddening and we must find a solution soon,” he stated. The ODM leader further said the security situation in the region will be improved not just for teachers but for all communities living in Northeastern. “When I go back in Nairobi I will also push to have more locals trained as teachers,” he added. MPs last week indicated that they would summon the Commission on Administrative Justice over the decision by the TSC to transfer non-local teachers Northeastern. National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale has said the CAJ–also known as The Office of the Ombudsman–will receive summons this week. The Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims, on the other hand, called on the national government to take action against TSC for the transfers.