The four Chinese arrested over a video that showed one of them cane an employee now want to be deported. They say they have suffered a lot. Appearing before Justice Luka Kimaru, the prosecution sought time to get directions from the Director of Public Prosecutions on how to proceed with the case following the new development. This is despite the prosecution indicating that it is ready to charge Deng Heilan, Ou Giang, Yu Ling and Chang Yueping with assault. Justice Kimaru granted the prosecution one day. The case is to be mentioned today for further directions. The video showed one suspect, believed to be Deng Heilan, whipping a waiter for reporting to work late in Kileleshwa went viral, thus leading to their arrest. On February 13, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i issued a deportation order after the court directed they be detained for 15 days pending a police probe. Last week, the deportation order was suspended following an application by the four suspects that challenged their deportation and 15-day detention. Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti, however, opposed their application to have their 15-day detention reduced. Through officer Noah Kiplangat, Kinoti said the application amounted to an abuse of the court process and intended to defeat justice. He requested the court to dismiss it. "Considering the nature of investigations and logistics involved, the 15 days sought in the trial court will enable us to conclusively complete these Multi-Agency investigations without delay," Kiplangat said. Further, he said the Chinese have been involved in degrading and violating fundamental rights, thus breaching their condition of stay, hence their case for deportation was ripe. Kiplangat added that as part of their evidence, they needed to obtain documents from the restaurant relating to the log-in and log-out details of the suspects for the period they have been in gainful employment in the country. Court papers showed that releasing the suspects at this stage would give the four an opportunity to interfere with the investigations as the prosecution had not obtained documentation from the restaurant.