Murang’a governor Mwangi wa Iria has said he will spearhead a meeting among local leaders to heal political divisions in the county. The governor has said it is unfortunate that the county has become the centre of politics "that seem to be aimed at disrespecting the President". Wa Iria spoke on Friday at Mumbi grounds in Murang’a town during the graduation ceremony of 10,000 youths who benefited from free technical courses sponsored by the county government. It also doubled as a BBI forum. He said he had invited all local leaders and asked why those allied to Deputy President William Ruto chose not to attend. “This was not a meeting to talk about Ruto, Raila Odinga or any other individual. Its objective was to talk to people about the BBI report,” the governor said. He said the reconciliatory meeting will be led by local elders including the council of eminent persons that has the membership of Equity Bank founder Peter Munga, veteran politician Maina Wanjigi and retired ACK bishop Gideon Githiga among others. But the governor said even in the early days, there was a process followed by elders when individuals disrespected a leader. “We have elders who can do a similar thing. We will give them our blessings and when they call us we will avail ourselves so we can sit down and talk,” Wa Iria said. He, however, reiterated that the errant leaders will have to apologise to President Uhuru Kenyatta. “The least we expect from them is an apology. They will have to swallow their pride and tell Kenyans and Murang’a people who voted for the President that they are sorry. When they do that then we will be able to walk together on the same journey." The governor also emphasised that he will not allow two sets of BBI forums in the county. He said those who plan BBI meetings in Murang’a should invite everyone and understand that he is the chairman of all BBI forums in the county. “In Murang’a, I am leading BBI because I am the governor. You cannot request a man to lead in his home and no one has permission to come to tell us that there is another BBI forum." Leaders who attended the meeting included Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia, his ICT counterpart Joe Mucheru, Gatanga MP Nduati Ngugi, Kigumo MP Ruth Mwaniki and Murang'a Woman Representative Sabina Chege. Chege said it is distasteful for Ruto to allow his foot soldiers to attack the President in his presence. “We are saying enough is enough. Let him stop his people from disrespecting the President because even when their times come, they will want to be respected,” she said. Nduati said the county is fully behind the President and the BBI report and that anybody opposing it will not succeed. Local leaders, he said, will not be allowed to organise BBI forums aimed at attacking the President. Uhuru. The county has three pro-Ruto MPs including the outspoken Kandara MP Alice Wahome and her Kiharu counterpart Ndindi Nyoro. MPs allied to Ruto have vowed to reject any proposal in the BBI to create additional seats in the government. On Friday, Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, however, said they do not intend to hold parallel BBI rallies and that they will attend rallies that are scheduled. Edited by R.Wamochie