The state is yet to supply the defence for private detective Jane Mugo with all the documents necessary for trial, four months down the line. This was revealed on Monday at a Milimani court where Mugo appeared alongside her lawyer Dunstan Omari for the pretrial. Following this, chief magistrate Martha Mutuku directed the investigating officer to supply all the necessary documents by Thursday. “I can confirm that we have not been served with all the documents yet trial begins on February 17. We have been given only three witness statements,” Omari said. The private detective has been charged with threatening to kill two people. She is accused of threatening to kill Deepa Shah Desmond at Kyuna Close in Spring Valley on February 4. She also faces a second count of threatening to kill Martin Mugusia in 2015 when she allegedly drew a pistol. In November last year, the court dismissed her application seeking state protection after allegedly receiving threats to her life. "Mugo in her application did not state or explain to the court how she wanted to be protected," Mutuku said. But the Director of Public Prosecutions urged the court to detain Mugo at Lang'ata Womens Prison for her safety. Through her lawyers Omari and former Kiambu senior principal magistrate Brian Khaemba, Mugo said that it was only by God’s mercy that she was alive. “Her clients have been given state protection. At the moment she has no gun with her. It is with the Firearms Licensing Board,” Omari said. In October last year, Mugo informed the court through an affidavit that her life was threatened by investigating officers in the case. "Our client’s life is in danger as she is afraid of the investigators in the case by the way they are treating her. We urge the court's protection as we intend to reveal the context of the threats," the defence said. In the affidavit, Mugo claimed that threats to her life and her family began in 2014 but despite her reporting to the police "none of the cases had been dealt with". She pleaded not guilty and the court freed her on Sh300,000 bail or an alternative Sh500,000 bond. Edited by R.Wamochie