The ongoing Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) popularisation rallies are turning out to be a boon to traders in various towns. Traders in Narok say they reaped huge profits when the caravan for the fifth edition of the BBI forum came to town. Narok County Chamber of Commerce Chairperson,  David Mpatiany said most businesses, especially those dealing with fast food and lodgings started receiving high number of visitors from Thursday, February 20 through Monday February 24. Mpatiany who runs a hotel and lodging business in Narok  said his hotel was fully booked unlike in normal days where he would have less than 50 percent of his rooms occupied. “It was a season of great harvest to us. I made huge profits as all 84 rooms that I charge Sh 1, 500 per room were fully occupied,” said Mpatiany. He said early this year the business community had incurred losses because of the heavy downpour that hindered many people from accessing the town. “Narok town is known for experiencing flash floods during  rainy season that some time cause deaths and destroys property worth millions of shilling, so people kept off the town in the month of January making most businesses to suffer losses,” said Mpatiany. Ben Sopia, a boda boda operator was all smiles on the day the BBI forum was held in the town and said  he tripled his daily earnings. “On a normal day, I take home between Sh600 and Sh 800, but on the day BBI came to Narok I made Sh2, 300 for three consecutive days as there were many visitors in town,” said . Sopia. He said such events help boost heir business and cited the last year's Madaraka Day celebrations that was marked in the town as providing another good business opportunity. Margaret Nashipae, a fruit vendor said she made huge profits after selling double of what she sells on a normal day. “I sell mangoes, ripe bananas and oranges. The period we had visitors coming for the BBI meeting was a good season for me as I had to look for a huge stock which sold very fast,” said  Nashipae. The BBI forum that was held at Ole Ntimama Stadium on  February 22 saw over 20, 000 people attending. The BBI rallies have so far been in Kisii, Kakamega, Mombasa, Kitui, Narok and Garissaa.