The required countrywide review of electoral boundaries hangs in the balance as the polls agency says it lacks the money to begin next month. The news comes as National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale warned IEBC against using 'cooked' 2019 Census figures to define constituencies. He was speaking on behalf of leaders from pastoralist regions. “We will not allow cooked census figures to define our constituencies unless we come to the table and agree how constituencies will be defined,” the Garissa Township MP said. Duale's warning signifies the high stakes that could roil the review process, with the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission facing a delicate situation on the future of 26 constituencies protected in the 2012 review. Kenya has 14 pastoralist counties with at least 100 constituencies. Next month, the IEBC will not manage to deploy a Boundaries Review Operations Plan (BROP), a  concept document to guide the review. The BROP provides planned activities and timeliness culminating in a pilot and eventually nationwide electoral boundaries review by July next year. The Constitution requires the IEBC to review the names and boundaries of constituencies at intervals of not less than eight years and not more than 12 years. However, with the commission raising the red flag over budgetary constraints, many of its planned activities could suffer massive delays pushing back legal timeliness.   “The commission has initiated capacity-building for its staff, procurement of requisite tools and conduct of a pilot boundaries review,” Chebukati said in a statement. “However, these processes have been hampered by inadequate budgetary allocation.” The current boundaries were gazette on March 7, 2012, and are, therefore, due for review starting in March. If the changes IEBC proposes take effect in the 2022 General Election, the law requires the review must be completed at least 12 months earlier,by July next year. It has also emerged the IEBC's troubles could be compounded by revelations that the Kenyan National Bureau of Statistics is yet to avail to the polls agency the 2019 Census data. "KNBS is yet to formally publish the results of the 2019 Census released by President Uhuru Kenyatta in November last year," the commission said. The Constitution provides that the National Population and Housing Census data should be the primary reference in electoral boundaries review. However, the law allows the IEBC to consider other parameters such as geographical features and urban centres, the community of interest, historical, economic, cultural ties and means of communication. The IEBC can review the number, names and boundaries of the 1,450 wards nationally but can not reduce the current constituencies from 290. However, IEBC can merge or propose newer constituencies by tinkering with the boundaries of existing ones. According to the IEBC, the review process must start next month if it is to be completed by July next year, well in time for the 2022 polls. As the emotive process nears, politicians have warned Ithe EBC against reviewing their constituencies. Duale, who chairs the Pastoralists Parliamentary Group, said the boundaries review exercise should be guided by landmass and the population so pastoralist regions are not disadvantaged. “For us, we are saying it is one kilometre, one vote. Kenya does not belong to those pushing for one man one vote alone,” he said. Some of the constituencies that were protected in 2012 include Othaya, Ndaragwa, Tetu, Mukurweini, Kangema and Mathioya in Mt Kenya region. In the Coast, those that did not meet the quota in the last review are Lamu East, West, Mvita, Mwatate, Wundanyi, Voi, Bura and Galole. Others are Samburu East, Marakwet East, Keiyo North, Mogotio in the Rift Valley and Vihiga and Budalang’i in Western as well as Laisamis, Isiolo South, Kilome, North Horr, Saku in Northeastern and Mbeere in Eastern. The population of a constituency must be higher or lower than its quota by 40 per cent for cities and sparsely populated areas and 30 per cent for other areas. The quota is arrived at by dividing the total population by the 290 constituencies. With Kenya's population at 47.6 million, the population quota in the planned review will be 164,014. Urban cities and sparsely populated areas will have a maximum of 229,621 and a minimum of 98,409 residents. All other areas will have a population of a maximum of 213,219 and a minimum of 114,819. Edited by R.Wamochie