EACC wants to file fresh charges against governors, state officials and individuals facing graft charges. The new civil charges will help EACC recover stolen taxpayers' money from those already facing graft charges in court. "We are putting everything in place so that it remains a doubled pronged war on corruption, where the suspects are prosecuted and proceeds recovered,” EACC spokesperson Yassin Amaro told the Star on phone. Yassin warned that all the people who will be charged with corruption in the future should expect more fresh civil charges to enable authorities to recover stolen taxpayer funds. "All those involved will be prosecuted as per the law. It doesn’t matter the position you are holding or you used to hold. The law in place will help us come for what belongs to Kenyans,” Yassin said. The governors who are already facing graft charges include Moses Lenolkulal (Samburu), Mike Sonko (Nairobi), Ferdinand Waititu (Ex-Kiambu), Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia) and Evans Kidero (Ex-Nairobi). “We have governors, MPs, civil servants, county officials and others who used their position to swindle taxpayers funds. Some still believe that they can use their current positions to run away from justice. EACC will definitely come for it,” he said. Former CSs facing charges are Henry Rotich (Treasury), Hassan Wario (Sports) and Michael Kamau (Transport). Former principal Secretaries also facing charges include Thuita Mwangi (Foreign Affairs), Lilian Omollo (Youth) and Richard Lesiyampe (Agriculture). “Those under investigations are many. In fact, those we have completed investigations are waiting for prosecution are many,” a top EACC official told the Star. Other ex-state officials are Ken Tarus (Ex KPLC Managing Director),  Ben Chumo ((Ex KPLC Managing Director) and  David Kimosop (Former Kerio Valley Development Authority Managing Director) among others who were suspended. However, EACC officials told the Star that a number of files were completed and they will charge more governors and state officials at the right time. His remarks are coming at a time the SRC was protesting against suspended state officials who are earning salaries without input. EACC has already tracked money trails and transactions of all cases in court and they have details of the exact location of proceeds of corruption and people who received the funds. The International Center for Policy and Conflict Executive Director Ndung’u Wainaina said that Kenya has good laws that protect institutions and Kenyans were looking at the recovery of the proceeds. "Some cases are genuine while others are politically driven. The way EACC will pursue the recovery of the stolen proceeds those are not guilty should also demand justice and hefty compensation," Wainina told the Star. He said that the laws in place were effective and the war on corruption would easily be won if the right people were appointed or elected in positions to fight corruption.