There are no documents for the Sh1.6 billion the Ministry of Agriculture spent to import maize, MPs heard on Monday. PS Hamadi Boga could only account for Sh2,483,120,00 out of the Sh4.4 billion the government spent on grains importation to mitigate the deficit in 2017. Boga, who was before the Public Accounts Committee, said the other documents could not be found. Then Auditor General Edward Ouko had in his 2016-17 audit report raised the red flag on the Sh4.4 billion allegedly spent on maize imports. According to the audit, Sh1.6 billion was paid to Export Trading, Sh1 billion to Hydrey (P) Ltd, Sh1,114,000 to Export Trading, Sh609 million to Mombasa Maize Millers and Sh1.4 million to Export Trading. Mboga said there is no evidence to show that the payments were made as claimed. “After going through our cash books, bank statements and Ifmis system we cannot see any payments made,” he said even after summoning former officers to help them trace the documents. Mboga was accompanied by Strategic Food Reserve Board chairperson Noah Wekesa. Former Agriculture CS Willy Bett and ex-PS Richard Lesiyampe snubbed the committee despite having been invited since the import occurred during their tenure. PAC on Monday issued summonses to the two. The committee had also invited Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua and former Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri. The two requested for another date. Mboga also tabled a list of 36 companies which imported maize and sold to the government during that period. From the list, it emerged that some of the traders sold the maize exorbitantly to the government and ended up as millers buying the same at a subsidised fee. The government was paying up to Sh3,600 for a 90kg sack of maize and later sold it to local milers at Sh2,300. Wekesa called for a law change to make the entity a body corporate with powers to make decisions as opposed to the current set-up where that responsibility lies with the Agriculture ministry. He said domiciling them under the ministry frustrated the operations at the SFR, citing a past incident when Kiunjuri allegedly irregularly used Sh1.8 billion from their coffers to pay Commodity House without consulting the board. “It was an irregular payment because my board had not discussed or addressed the matter. We only realised that our money was missing,” he told the committee chaired by Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi. Edited by R.Wamochie