In life, former President Daniel Arap Moi loved nyama and for his send-off, the public will have tons of meat to celebrate his life. The government in collaboration with family and friends have slaughtered hundreds of cattle to feed members of the public who will attend the funeral service at his home in Kabarak in Nakuru. Close to 300 chefs and cooks were busy chopping the carcasses at the Kabarak University's main cafeteria which will be catering for the public. Family members, dignitaries, friends and invited guests will have their lunch at the Moi's home within the university compound. "We have been told that the attendants should eat to their fill and we endeavor to ensure that the family wish is fulfilled," one of the chefs said. Moi died at Nairobi Hospital on February 4 and will be laid to rest at his home in Kabarak, Nakuru tomorrow Wednesday. In their tributes during the State funeral service held at the Nyayo National Stadium, the family revealed that Moi loved eating roasted meat – especially ribs, contrary to a long-held belief that he had a strict vegetarian diet. “He loved nyama choma, at times ignoring doctor’s advice whenever we reminded him of the same. Nothing came between him and meat,” Gideon Moi said. The Baringo Senator told mourners of how his father had an elephantine memory and one who taught them to ‘be tough but keep a soft heart’. "He was a man ‘who still found time to be a wonderful father despite his overwhelming responsibility of running the state. He was passionate about God in all his dealings, and a man of great compassion who loved his friends and family," Gideon said. Meanwhile, preparations for the final bow for the late Moi are in top gear at Kabarak University and Afraha Stadium where the proceedings will be projected. Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya said at least 30,000 mourners are expected to attend the burial service. "I might not be a position to say how many bulls have been slaughtered but they are enough to be served for morning snack and lunch," he said. According to the police boss, all guests are expected to be seated by 7 am after thorough screening. Moi's body will be flown from Nairobi's Lee funeral home to Nakuru where the procession will begin to Kabarak University where the service will be held. Natembeya warned those interested in attending against wearing clothes with political messages. "The only clothing with a message that will be allowed at the venue are those with Kanu prints because Mzee was the party chairman," Natembeya said.