Prayer is our only salvation from the new coronavirus despite all our precautions, a government official has said. “This thing is big. We have public health officers at all airports and other entry points who have taken all measures to ensure the virus does not get in," Mombasa county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo said on Friday. “But we also pray. Prayers help ensure things such as this do not affect us.” He spoke in his office after a security meeting. Kitiyo's statements came against the backdrop of disgruntlement with the government for allowing a flight from China into the country on Wednesday. The 239 passengers on board the China Southern Airlines Flight were advised to self-quarantine for 14 days. The COVID-19, as the new coronavirus has been named, originated from China. It has spread all over the world, with two cases being reported in Africa—in Algeria and Nigeria. So far 83,330 cases have been reported worldwide, with 2,856 deaths. On Friday, the Kenya Muslim National Advisory Council accused the government of having no regard for Kenyans' lives. Chairman Sheikh Juma Ngao condemned the Health, Interior and Defence ministries, Kenya Airways and China Southern Airlines, saying they do not care about the lives of Kenyans. “They colluded to endanger the lives of more than 47 million Kenyans by allowing in people from China, a country that has been infested with the deadly coronavirus,” the cleric said. The council wants all flights from China cancelled until the threat of the virus globally subsides. The High Court on Friday temporarily suspended all flights from China. Sheikh Ngao, who spoke to the press at a hotel in Mombasa, said Kenyans can barely afford three meals a day and are ill-equipped to handle the deadly virus if it finds its way into the country. “Nairobi has been ranked sixth in Africa in the coronavirus threat level because of the presence of Chinese people in the county,” he said. So far all 17 cases suspected to have been coronavirus have tested negative. Sheikh Ngao said it is inexplicable that Kenya allows visitors from 18 major cities at high risk of the virus. Kitiyo said the government is working hard to keep out the virus, but Ngao was doubtful. “Do not tell us you have the capacity to deal with coronavirus when you have no capacity to deal with a simple invasion of locusts,” he said.