Kenya Defence Forces men and women’s sides will have congested fixtures in the coming weeks to clear the backlog of matches they accrued during the first leg of the National Handball Federation League. The men’s Ulinzi side have only played seven duels in the 2019/2020 season, 17 weeks down the line while Ulinzi Sharks — the women’s team — played their season opener yesterday. Head coach Yusuf Kipkoech said the teams were engaged in internal military activities hence shelved their fixtures. However, he says they are prepared for the tight fixtures. In yesterday's women’s tie, Sharks edged Mt. Kenya University (MKU) 27-23 (15-8). The win elevates Sharks to sixth place in the eight-team league. Sharks’ Josephine Kerubo hit double figures to jointly top score with MKU’ Sarah Gitu with 11 goals apiece. The Ulinzi men’s side maintained their unbeaten run with two wins against teenage sides at the weekend. In their first encounter of 2020 that turned out to be a one-sided affair, the soldiers clobbered Inspired Boys 40-17. Yesterday, league debutants Mbooni Boys High School's Makueni Bees gave the former champions a run for their money in a high-scoring exchange. The opening half rolled off to a tight affair but Ulinzi held off the challenge with a 22-17 advantage at the break. On resumption, the military men caged the students to rake in maximum points with a 47-32 victory. Ulinzis' former Kenya international Nicholas Ireri and Bees' Martin Juma were joint top-scorers with eight goals each. "Bees are so spirited. They are still teenagers which is very good. We have learnt a few of our mistake from playing them," noted Kipkoech. Inspired Boys shared spoils with St. Paul’s University at 26-26. This was the varsity side’s second draw of the season following their 30-30 stalemate with Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology. Makueni Bees fell to military side Thika Engineers 33-28 before they bounced back to narrowly edge MKU (men) 23-22 and thwart University of Nairobi 34-24. Former women’s league winners National Cereals and Produce Board whitewashed National Youth Service 30-9 in another encounter.