Kenya Handball Federation hopes to expand and regulate the league starting next season next season. Technical director Charles Omondi said the executive is working around the clock to have both the Premier and Super League divisions running concurrently. This, he said,  will decongest the men's league which currently has 25 teams. "I have requested the executive to have two tiers. The Premier League will have 12 teams and the rest will  play in the lower tier. He said they intend to incorporate the relegation/promotion criteria which is currently lacking in the league. "The league is too big and we even locked out some teams. If we have the second tier, we can even have the county league," said Omondi. "The league is generating  a lot of interest and if we can expand it, the youth stand a chance to enjoy.  The Super Cup final last year had visitors from Denmark whom we did not invite but they planned their travel to coincide with the final day. People are following the league and we just need to be consistent." Meanwhile, KHF is concerned several teams have dished out walkovers including —Makueni Bees, Nanyuki and National Youth Service in the league this season. However, Omodi insists even though the situation is worrying, the federation is powerless. He said miscommunication and financial challenges are partly to blame but promised to go the football way should sponsors come on board next season.  in football, Sony Sugar were relegated from the Kenya Premier League after giving out three walkovers. "When we have a sponsor and the league becomes attractive, we will take the football direction. If we make that decision now, we might end up with only three teams. Handball is slightly different from football because we have only one-tier. You cannot impose sanctions when it is hard for teams to get to playing venue," Omondi revealed before adding. "Each walkover case is treated differently for various reasons. We cannot push the fixtures forward because already we have a tight schedule. We are fighting for funding to change the mindset."