Bomet governor Hillary Barchok and Senator Christopher Langat nearly exchanged fists on Friday night at Kipreres in Bomet East after a misunderstanding. In a video that has since gone viral, an angry Barchok  is heard shouting at the senator warning him against speaking in his presence as area MP Beatrice Kones, woman rep Joyce Korir and area MCA Philip Korir tried to contain the situation. Supporters of the two at one point also engaged one another in a war of words as the ugly 10 pm incident continued for nearly 30 minutes. As a result, the fundraiser that had been organised for traders whose premises were razed by fire ended prematurely. Trouble started when Senator Langat while on the podium speaking, attacked the governor who had just arrived accusing him of misappropriating county funds. He further accused him of failing to unite leaders from the county saying during the late governor Joyce Laboso's administration they used to meet regularly to deliberate on matters of the county. "The late madam governor used to call us for meetings regularly but we are surprised that is not happening now so mheshimiwa Barchok please unite us, bring us together as the county leadership," he said. But, Barchok who had remained seated waiting for his turn to come could not take it anymore. He went straight to the podium and grabbed the microphone censoring him of misleading the public. Barchok said it was wrong for the senator to speak ill of him publicly yet there were other avenues he could have used in seeking to address the issues. Friday's function seemed to have been the boiling point in the frosty relations between the two and more so for Langat who is said to be warming up for the governor's position in the 2022 race. Late last year, the senator while attending a function at Chepalungu kicked off the war where he publicly took on a county staff over lack of medicine at the county's health facilities. But, the governor did not take it lightly asking the senator to face him directly instead of abusing his junior staff at public events. The two later reconciled with the senator apologising to the governor over the remarks. Barchok in his defense after the Friday fracas said he had to stop the senator from further propagating lies in his presence. He spoke at a function in Longisa ward on Saturday. Accusing the senator of peddling lies against his administration, Barchok said Langat had mastered the art of hoodwinking residents through a populist idea in the name of keeping his oversight role. He retorted, "I cannot sit and listen as someone lies to wananchi...awache kiingereza mingi na afanye kazi yake na kama hajui kazi yake nitamfunza". He asked the senator to stop invoking the name of Laboso in his political forums saying it was wrong to speak about someone departed in bad faith. Senator Langat in a different event said he has nothing personal with the governor noting the only issue he has was why residents are facing numerous challenges in service delivery yet funds had already been disbursed. "Let him invite us to his office so we can iron out issues facing our people, he can even ask the clergy to assume that role," he said.