Deputy President William Ruto has said the ongoing discussions on Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) will not derail the country’s development agenda. He said the government under the leadership of President Uhuru Kenyatta was focused on bettering the lives of Kenyans. “Even as we engage each other in the initiative, we would like to ensure that all the plans aimed at transforming the country will not stall,” he said. He spoke on Friday at Giakanja High School and St Bhakita Kiburia Girls’ Secondary School in Nyeri and Kirinyaga counties. He cautioned against BBI being hijacked by politicians in a bid to push their own interests. “The discussions should not be limited to the issues of politicians but all Kenyans for there is is no better view than the other.” Ruto said BBI was about making Kenya move forward rather than creating additional seats for politicians. He was accompanied by MPs Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), Gitonga Murugara (Tharaka), Antony Kiai (Mukurweini), Gichimu Githinji (Gichugu) and Rahab Mukami (Nyeri County). At the same time, Ruto said the government was committed to achieving 100 per cent transition. He noted that an ambitious uplift of schools’ infrastructure was ongoing to create a conducive environment for learners. “We are dedicated to expanding and modernising buildings, classrooms, laboratories and equipment in schools to create a friendly learning environment for our students,” he said. He explained that it was an offense for parents not to take their children to Form One after the completion of Class Eight on claims of lack of fees. “The government has provided funds to ensure every child has access to education." Mukami said the Mt Kenya region was behind BBI. However, she said it should be centred on the people and development. She was supported by Gachagua, who said they were behind a BBI that does not burden Kenyans. The Mathira MP said BBI recommendations should be tailored to address the needs of the people. “If BBI would be about creating jobs for a few people, we would have a problem with it. We want everyone to have enough money in their pockets from agriculture and business." Gitonga said BBI should be inclusive and accommodate all Kenyans, irrespective of their political leaning.