 Wrangles in the ACK diocese of Maseno West are far from over after reverends accused Bishop John Godia of intimidation. The clergy want the diocese divided into Maseno Central and Maseno West saying it is too big to be managed by one bishop. But Godia says those clamouring for the division of the diocese are reverends who are unhappy with his election as bishop. Faithful from Ramula and Regea deaneries on Monday accused Godia of gagging those pushing for the division of the diocese. “After the bishop realised that our mission to split the diocese is genuine, he has resorted to intimidating our reverends,” reverend Charlton Ochola said. Ochola said out of the 22 churches in Ramula and Regea deaneries, 18 have agreed to have the diocese split into two. “Unfortunately, five reverends out of the 18 pushing for the division of the diocese were summoned by the bishop and intimidated for expressing their democratic rights,” Ochola said. He asked Godia to convene a special sitting of the diocesan synod to ratify their exodus. However, the bishop said such a move was impossible because the last synod meeting resolved that a new diocese can only be formed after 10 years. Ochola dismissed the claim, saying it was not in the church's constitution. The Ramula and Regea faithful led by Reverend Kenneth Wachianga said the leadership of the diocese at the moment cannot foster unity. Wachiangi accused Godia of allowing politicians to do their politics in the church. “If politicians’ wants to come to church let them come for spiritual nourishment and not to be incited on matters they don’t understand,” Wachianga said. The two spoke at Friends Hotel in Siaya where they were to petition the bishop to call for a synod meeting. “Apart from receiving spiritual nourishment in the church, politicians can also save time to inform faithful’s on what exactly will benefit them in the BBI report,” Wachianga said. Godia has denied any wrongdoing. The bishop has been in office for just a year. He said he has never complained that the diocese was too big for him to handle. “This is just leadership wrangles fueled by a section of Christians in Gem who are not happy with my election as the bishop and they have now resorted to sideshows to distract me,” Godia said.  edited by peter obuya