Allies of Deputy President William Ruto now say claims of impeachment plots against President Uhuru Kenyatta and the DP are mere propaganda by ODM to divide the two leaders. Claims had emerged of plans by the wrangling factions in Jubilee to oust Uhuru and Ruto. Last week, a section of allies of Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga claimed there was a scheme by the DP’s Tangatanga confidants to impeach the President. Led by Suna East MP Junet Mohammed and Kieni legislator Kanini Kega, the MPs said the lot discussed the plan in their meeting held in Naivasha last week. “They discussed the impeachment of the President in the Naivasha meeting. Let them bring it to the house. We are waiting for them,” Junet told a press conference at Parliament Buildings last week. And at the weekend, reports emerged that Kieleweke MPs had also hatched a plan to remove Ruto and had already planned a meeting in Nanyuki Town this week to discuss the matter. On Sunday, Ruto’s allies discounted the claims, terming them propaganda by ODM machinery who are keen to create a wedge between Uhuru and Ruto for their ‘selfish’ 2022 interests. “Issues of impeachment are ODM ideas. Remember even [Siaya Senator James] Orengo had proposed impeachment of the President sometimes back. In Naivasha, we were not discussing the President,” Soy MP Caleb Kositany, a close Ruto ally, said. Kositany told the Star on the phone that the Raila’s ODM is on an all-out mission to separate the two Jubilee leaders, who have allegedly enjoyed cordial relationship since 2013. Uhuru and Ruto teamed up in 2012 to deliver wins in 2013 and 2017 presidential elections. However, their relationship has been rocky since the March 9, 2018, handshake between the President and opposition chief. The DP and his allies have claimed that the handshake was rocking Jubilee party and have often asked the president to dissociate himself from it. They claimed Raila and ODM were hiding behind the unity drive to divide and scuttle Ruto’s chances of succeeding Uhuru in 2022. But the president has told them off that his cosiness with Raila was about uniting the country and not politics as they thought and claimed. “If ODM wants to impeach the DP, they are most welcomed. Let them bring it and we shall deal with it,” Kositany said. Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei said that ODM and their sympathisers were using the handshake and Building Bridges Initiative to divide Jubilee and the country. “Those are wet dreams. They are going nowhere.  The aim of BBI was to unite the country but it seems ODM and its sympathisers are doing the contrary to further diving the country,” he reckoned. Embakasi Central MP Benjamin Mwangi, a staunch DP supporter, criticised ODM for behaving as if they are ones who voted for the President. He said the opposition wants to ‘own’ the president more than those who toiled and took the bullet for him. “These people are behaving as if they are the ones who voted for the president. They are forgetting that they never voted. We, who voted, why should we remove him?” he posed. He added, “This is just propaganda by ODM guys and those want to ensure that the president and DP will never enjoy the candid relationship as they used to.”