A Cabinet Secretary was early this week summoned by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations for questioning over matters that are yet to be made public. Sources at the DCI told Corridors of Power that the CS showed up at the DCI headquarters on time and was only questioned for 17 minutes. Questions are however being asked as to why the DCI chose not to inform the media about the matter, as it has been the case with other prominent personalities. Perhaps the DCI simply bowed to pressure from politicians to stop “prosecuting” matters through the media. Revelers at a bar in Kisii County were shocked when a man who is mandated to maintain law got rowdy after drinking himself silly while armed with a pistol. Speaking at the top of his voice, the senior police officer harassed patrons while saying there was nothing they could do to him. At one point, he asked those who had a problem with him to feel free and report the matter to Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i. “This is Kisii and not Meru, so don’t bring any nonsense here,” he told a customer at the bar. It appeared that the officer was well-known at the bar since some patrons could be heard referring to him as bwana OCS, as they tried to calm him down. Even as counties continue to be condemned over wastage and misuse of public resources, one county seems to be unmoved; and has just taken the vice to another level. A brother to the governor is said to be so powerful that he even has an office at the building that houses county headquarters. Staffers at the county told Corridors of Power that the office of this outsider is not your ordinary one. It has the latest flat-screen televisions models, expensive furniture and file cabinets, general office supplies, leather seats at the waiting lounge and a kitchenette. He said there is even staff attached to the office. Perhaps Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission CEO Twalib Mbarak should investigate and take appropriate action in case public money is being spent for the wrong reasons. A governor from a county in western Kenya has raised eyebrows after he convened a meeting with MCAs to ‘bond’. The county chief is said to have thanked the ward reps for being friendly to his administration and even gave them allowances for attending the meeting. Residents are now questioning the ability of the MCAs to check the excesses of the executive now that they are already in bed with the county chief. One resident was heard saying that they they should enjoy themselves to the maximum for the remaining two years since they will all go home come next elections.