Mombasa residents want a methadone clinic for heroin addicts in Freretown relocated. They say it's a bad influence on children since many patients smoke bhang near school and some gangs pretend to be methadone patients. The clinic has 953 patients but should only have 100. Heroin addiction is a major problem at the Coast. Methadone, an opioid, is used in the treatment of heroin addiction; it reduces painful withdrawal and cravings but can also be addictive and is used under supervision of a physician. In response, Mombasa MCAs have proposed setting up more methadone clinics in Mombasa in response to residents' opposition to the Freretown clinic. They also proposed building a wall around the school to keep children safe. In a report tabled in the county assembly, Freretown Primary headteacher Lucy Oyugi and the community raised concerns that patients at the facility for heroin addicts were smoking bhang around the school. This affected students and caused insecurity, she said. Health committee chairperson Swaleh Kibwana submitted the report. “We met and went through the raised issues, among them insecurity of the ward and the smoking of marijuana next to Freretown Primary and came up with various recommendations,” the Miritini MCA said. Speaker Harub Eharub said county clerk Salim Juma will submit the recommendations to the community within 15 days and give their feedback. Kibwana said they proposed the construction of methadone clinics in different constituencies — Shimo la Tewa, Miritini, Shika Adabu in Likoni and at Port Reiz mental hospital — to decongest the clinic. In the report, the biggest issue facing the Freretown clinic is overcrowding due to high demand. The committee recommended construction of a wall around the school. Deputy speaker Fadhili Mwalimu, who is a member of the committee, said the committee will ensure the wall is built within four months and that the clinic population is reduced to 100 patients. Kadzandani MCA Francis Nzai said they involved the community, residents and Freretown primary and secondary school heads. “We visited the clinic and realised some gangs pretend to be methadone patients." But, Likoni MCA Athman Mwamiri said public participation was not conducted during the construction of the clinic. “The county government went against the law by putting up a methadone clinic without the knowledge of the residents,” he said. The committee was urged to involve the public in other places identified for methadone clinics.  Edited by R.Wamochie