The National Cohesion and Integration Commission has raised the red flag over heightened political activities and the use of polarising statements by politicians. The commission warned that the situation is detrimental to Kenya’s stability and economic growth. Commissioner Dorcas Kedogo said some MPs and senators were taking advantage of the Building Bridges Initiative rallies to make inflammatory statements largely characterised by inter and intra-ethnic profiling of politicians and their supporters. This, the commission said, has resulted in political hooliganism and violence in some areas. Kedogo, who was with fellow commissioner Dan Makori, said the NCIC was probing 37 new cases of hate speech and incitement against politicians. The duo spoke during a visit to Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya's offices in Nakuru. The NCIC put on notice elected leaders and politicians who have been financing and promoting warlike activities in Trans Mara West, Baringo North and Samburu. The commissioners said although cattle rustling had been brought under control, animosity among various ethnic groups was escalating. They said conflict in North Rift is now being fuelled purely for political reasons as security units had sealed off routes used by cattle rustlers. “The conflict now revolves around ethnic hatred as some elected leaders frustrate and politicise the government’s disarmament programme. We have established that these communities are no longer fighting over water, pasture, cattle or any other resource,” Kedogo said. She urged the media to embrace conflict-sensitive reporting and avoid stirring political emotions that may trigger violence as Kenyans debate the BBI report. Makori warned that the commission was jointly mapping out strategies with other enforcement agencies to arrest and prosecute offenders. He said once investigations are complete, the 37 files will be handed to the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions. Makori urged Kenyans to respect the integrity of BBI by denouncing any attempts by politicians to lure them into violent activities. Last week NCIC chairperson Samuel Kobia said they support the initiative because the core challenges identified by the report fell squarely within the commission's mandate. Kobia asked politicians to desist from misleading their followers for selfish ambition and instead safeguard peace. The commissioners said they have identified insensitive and sensational live interviews given by politicians on vernacular radio stations, Television and social media. The commission urged politicians to conduct their activities in a responsible manner and refrain from hate speech, ethnic incitement and use of inflammatory and abusive language and other acts that may divide the country. It further wants political parties and candidates to focus on issue-based campaigns and peacefully share their political agenda to allow Kenyans to make a free choice. “The commission notes that issue-based politics will deepen democratisation and enhance long-term stability, peace and development for Kenya," Kedogo said. " Citizens must desist from ethnic hate and profiling, tone down on political intolerance and embrace diverse political views.” Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya