The State Department on correctional services has maintained all the Sh6.2 billion pending bills between 2009 and 2018 are illegal. Principal Secretary Zeinab Hussein on Monday said following a directive by the Interior CS Fred Matiang'i for state departments to settle all valid outstanding bills, her department had outstanding claims accumulated of the said amount. In a bid to commence the settlement of claims, she wrote to the National Treasury in November last year requesting a team of auditors to verify the claims. According to her, the National Treasury commissioned a team of 40 auditors who took 60 days to scrutinise and review all the outstanding claims. “The findings of the National Treasury auditors were that all outstanding claims were irregular and some were illegal and therefore the team could not recommend any for payment,” the PS said on Monday in a statement to newsrooms. As a result, the PS said the National Treasury special audit team recommended that a special forensic audit be commissioned to go through the claims amid efforts to authenticate if there was any that could be settled. Zeinab said the State Department commissioned a multiagency task force comprising the EACC, DCI, State Law Office, National Treasury and internal auditors to go through all the claims once again and advise if any of those claims could be settled. “The verdict of the multi-Agency task force was that none could be settled. However, the team designed a 10-point criteria and advised the State Department to consider settling any claims that met the criteria,” she said. She added, “Notwithstanding, these second set of findings, the State Department set up a committee of internal auditors to verify if any of these outstanding claims met the ten-point criteria." "The committee’s finding was that none of the bills met the ten-point criteria and therefore recommended that the department could not settle any of these claims”. Zeinab said as a further due diligence and in a bid to explore any possible means of settling the bills, she wrote to the National Treasury suggesting that the outstanding claims be looked at by the Pending Bills Closing Committee for further verification and final settlement. She said she has since forwarded all the information concerning the claims and the three audit reports to The National Treasury Pending Bills Closing Committee. “Given the nature of the findings of the three audits on these claims, the National Treasury Inter-Agency is checking the claims with care and due diligence in order to give a final verdict. The claimants should be patient and await the outcome of the exercise by the National Treasury Inter-Agency Pending Bills Closing Committee,” Zeinab said. According to the PS, her department has so far paid Sh3.770 billion for food & rations, Sh418,904,819 for development and Sh142,405,345 from the prison enterprise fund for the 2018-19 financial year. She said in the current Financial Year 2019-2020 the department has so far paid Sh2,110,201,958 for food and ration, Sh64,232,486 for pending bills and Sh119,916,291 from the Prison enterprise fund. “It is noted that following the streamlining measures put in place, the department in the Financial Year 2018/2019 made a saving of Sh 2,229,951,787and  ended the year with no food item related Pending Bill as contrasted to Financial year 2017/2018 that earned a bill of Sh 1,982,896,273,” she said.