The Federation of East Africa Secondary Schools Sports Association (FEASSSA) is impressed with the facilities that will host the annual showpiece in Kakamega between August 14 and 24. FEASSSA secretary-general, David Ngugi, said the facilities at various venues are in very good shape and he is upbeat Kenya will stage a memorable event. Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association (KSSSA) and Ministry of Education officials inspected the facilities and gave them a thumbs up. The regional games will feature students from Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Burundi and South Sudan. Students from schools in Europe are expected to take part in this year’s event ahead of the World School Games to be held in China. He said FEASSSA will also visit Kakamega as from March 10 to 13 to also inspect other facilities including hotels. Some of the institutions that will host the games include Kakamega High School, Mukumu Boys, Mukumu Seminary, Musingu High School, St Peter’s Mumias, Mumias Sports Complex, Bukhungu Stadium, Mudasa Academy and Masinde Murilo University of Science and Technology (MMUST). “We shall test the facilities during Term 2 national games scheduled for from July 31 to August 9 at Kakamega High as the main venue. We shall settle on the final list of facilities to host the games after the inspection by FEASSSA next month,” Ngugi added. At the same time, Ngugi said Kapsabet Boys is ready to host the Brookside national secondary schools Under-20 Term One games from April 14-23. He, however, added that since there are no swimming facilities in Nandi County, swimming will be held at Testimony High School in Eldoret. About 1,900 boys and girls will gather in Nandi County for the annual extravaganza which will feature basketball, hockey, swimming, handball, cross country, athletics,  rugby 15s and 7s. Ngugi added that Eliud Kipchoge Stadium will host track and field events while Kapsabet Boys and Baraton University will stage basketball. Handball, rugby and cross country will be held at Kipchoge Keino Stadium.