Marsabit residents are set to benefit from a five-year programme aimed at sustainably reducing acute malnutrition in four ASAL counties. The programme will address malnutrition through improved access to quality health services and better food security. The Marsabit government and USAID project Nawiri on Tuesday signed a deal for joint implementation of the programme. The programme, which will invest approximately Sh8.6 billion will focus on increasing access to health facilities, treating children diagnosed with acute malnutrition, educating mothers and establishing the households affected. The county registers the highest rate of malnutrition for children aged under five in Laisamis and North Horr subcounties, according to Kenya Demographic and Health Survey. The damage caused by malnutrition is irreversible and usually affects a child's potential to live a healthy and productive life. Deputy Governor Solomon Gubo Riwe said great strides have been made since the onset of devolution but the county is still grappling with effects of climate change. He said the county is committed to supporting the programme adding that it will change the lives of residents in the county constantly affected by drought. For the success of the programme, Riwe said, a multi-sectoral approach is needed. USAID mission director Mark Meassick, who signed the deal with Riwe, said the collaboration will focus on reducing persistent acute malnutrition that is at emergency levels in some parts of the county. He said his team will in the next two years identify vulnerable households and that the project will support the community to solve their own challenges by creating more sustainable solutions. The collaboration, Meassick said, seeks to empower residents and give guidelines that are responsive to food security. He said their success will be achieved when the service no longer needed in the county. Residents were optimistic the programme will bring a sustainable solution to the problem of acute malnutrition. Edited by R.Wamochie