A parliamentary committee has summoned Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua and former Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri over the Sh48.8 billion spent on maize imports two years ago. The two are expected to shed light on the multibillion-shilling imports before the Public Accounts Committee chaired by Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi on February 24. The matter attracted the attention of the Auditor General. An audit of the Agriculture ministry's spending for 2016-17 and 2017-18 shows the state department cannot explain how the billions were utilised. In  2016-17, the ministry spent Sh11.6 billion on maize imports and another Sh37.2 billion in 2017-18. The committee will also grill Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani on the ministry’s role in effecting the payments. Former Agriculture CS Willy Bett, ex-PS Richard Lesiyampe and Strategic Food Reserve chairman Noah Wekesa will also appear before the committee. Kinyua, the Committee heard, chaired the inter-ministerial committee that presided over the contentious maize importation. “On the issue of maize imports, we shall have to bring all these people under one roof,” Wandayi said. Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro demanded full disclosure of all the millers and traders who took part in the Sh48.8 billion importation. Kinyua is expected to explain the origin of a February 14, 2018, letter that caused the ministry to spend Sh6 billion above the approved maize importation budget in 2017-18. Initially, the ministry was to spend Sh6 billion to buy two million bags of grain. It instead spent Sh11.2 billion. On Monday, Agriculture PS Hamadi Boga told PAC that over-expenditure was occasioned by a presidential directive communicated to the ministry through Kinyua’s letter. “The initial budget was to procure two million bags at Sh6 billion. However, through presidential directive dated February 14, 2018, the ministry was directed to absorb all the maize offered for sale by farmers for the SFR,” Boga said. The MPs were concerned that the letter lacked the seal and signature of the President as required for any presidential directive. MPs Otiende Amollo (Rarieda) and TJ Kajwang’ poked holes in the letter. Edited by R.Wamochie