Hosts Egerton Wasps remained in the hunt for a place in the KRU Championship playoff despite losing 18-15 against third Mean Machine in a mid-week clash on Wednesday. Wasps got a losing point to remain fifth on the log with 28 points and outgoing coach Enos Otieno was upbeat that the team will get their target of playing in the playoff. “We are still in the race for a playoff berth. Competition for playoff places is getting tough as we head to the home stretch but we are confident we shall meet our target,” said Otieno. On the game against Machine, Otieno said: “It was a good game which we would have sealed in the first half but we didn't take our chances. The boys should now focus on the next game against the University of Eldoret.” During the game, former Rapogi High school fullback Leon Nyang and Walela scored a try each for Egerton. Nyang added a conversion and penalty. Bruce Odhiambo crossed the whitewash twice for Machine while Festus Safari added a conversion and two penalties. The game was earlier scheduled for last December . Another postponed game between Mombasa RFC and United States International University's Martials will be played on Saturday in Mombasa. Strathmore Leos lead the log with 61 points and are in pole position for a home semi-final while Masinde Murilo University of Science and Technology (MMUST) are second with 54 points. At the same time, teams from Uganda have entered this year's Western Balck Rock festival to be held at Mukumu High School, according to the organiser Matayo Mwenesi. The two teams from Uganda are Jaguars Club from Kampala and Entebbe Lady Swans who will enter teams in the girls' Under-19 and Under-13. The tournament will feature five main categories including Under-13 tag rugby, high school under-19 15's and 7's and clubs for men. Mwenesi said eight teams have so far entered the boys' 7's category. They include Butula Boys, Mukhonje, Handindi, Banja, Esalwa, Ebusiloli, Mukumu A and Mukumu B. The teams that have registered for boys' 15's category are Ebusiloli, Esalwa, Banja and Butula while Lady Swans, St Marks, Banja, Eregi 'A', and Eregi 'B' have entered the Girl's 7's category.