Kenya team will need at least a three-week residential training to step up their preparations ahead of the International Para-badminton Championship set for April 20-28 in Uganda. The Uganda showpiece will also double up as Africa Olympic qualifiers. However, Kenya, who are the top-ranked team in the continent, has been given a bye to the main draw of the international bonanza alongside Uganda, Egypt and Nigeria. While naming a 20-man squad during the trials yesterday, national team coach John Odhiambo said he wants the camp to start the last week of March to around April 18. “The team will be given a two-week break before they embark on thorough preparations,” he said The coach said he would have loved to have the residential camp at YMCA Shauri Moyo, owing to the adequate facilities and affordable food. Despite the numerous challenges facing the team, Odhiambo exuded confidence that they will deliver. “Inadequate equipment has forced the team to train using basketball wheelchairs because there’s only one badminton chair in the whole country. The team trains using the nylon shuttle cork instead of the feather shuttle. Lack of player enumeration also has a psychological disadvantage because they can’t train up to the required standards.” “Team Kenya is amongst the strongest in the continent and has never disappointed. The team that we will take to Uganda is the very team that failed to participate in the World Championship in Switzerland last year because of passport issues. The team needs standard equipment to conquer the mind of the players,” Odhiambo observed. Selected players were drawn from Nairobi, Mombasa, Kiambu and Kakamega counties. African short stature champion Anthony Ojwang and his lady counterpart Ruth Mueni headline the group. The 2018 champion Jeremiah Mariga and Victor Omondi also made the cut.  SINGLES Wheelchair 1. Ann Syombua Catherine Nzisa.  Wheelchair 2 Men Peter Munuve Shaban Warioba Rajan Abdala Itaken Timoi Alfred Simiyu  Ladies Beth Wanna Elizabeth ogonji Fidelis Wanjiru  Standing lower 3. Men Edwin Muruah Silas Onyango.  Ladies Phoebe Masika  Standing lower 4 Men Brian Wambalo  Standing upper 5 Men Wilson Githinji Albert Gitahi  Short stature 6 Men Anthony Ojwang Jeremiah Mariga Victor Omondi  Ladies Ruth Mueni 