A 70th minute goal by National U-20, Rising Stars forward Patrick Otieno is all what a 10-man Kariobangi Sharks needed to edge KCB 1-0 at the Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos. Otieno plundered home from close range to hand Sharks their fourth win of the season and their second one in a row, having thrashed Kisumu All Stars 8-1 last weekend. The performance earned Sharks' playing unit praises from coach William Muluya who noted that their last weekend massive win against All Stars motivated them. "Credit goes to my players who staged a spirited fight even when we were numerically disadvantaged. Our last weekend encounter injected confidence in the players and it was evident throughout the 90 minutes. The win will give us the much sought winning rhythm going forward," he said His KCB counterpart Zedekiah 'Zico' Otieno blamed out lack of creativity in the midfield for the loss which denied them the opportunity to scale to second. "We played well but we did not create scoring chances convincingly. The few we created especially in the first half did not make any difference and I think it was a bad day for us in office. Despite the loss, we are firmly on course to achieve our target for the season, " said the former Gor Mahia assistant coach. The bankers were unfortunate  not to head to the breather leading as their forwards flapped clear cut chances, notably in the opening minutes of the half, where Sharks struggled to settle. Burly forward Enoch Agwanda should have handed KCB the lead hardly four minutes into the game but his shot from the edge of the box went straight into the hands of Brian Bwire. A few minutes later, Reagan Otieno was also denied by Bwire who proved the hero in the half, making fine saves to ensure his side did not trail the on-form opponents. Equally, Sharks created chances in the half through Peter Lwasa and James Mazembe whose efforts were dealt with similar force by KCB's shot stopper Joseph Okoth. KCB made the first change of the match eight minutes after the restart with former Migori Youth forward being Anthony Abwao introduced for Simon Munala. On the other hand, Sharks were forced into an unwanted substitution after Patilah Omoto suffered an injury. Peter Oudu filled the void left by the 2017 Cecafa Senior Challenge winner. Otieno gave Sharks the lead in 70th minute, firing from the box after KCB defenders failed to clear a corner kick. Sharks bid to hold on the slim lead was dealt a blow after South Sudan centre half Kuol Chol was sent off in the 81st minute after collecting a second caution.