The body of a police officer attached to Deputy President William Ruto's office was found by a house help on Thursday. Sergeant Kipyegon Kenei's body was on Thursday discovered inside the servant quarter he lives in at Imara Daima's Villa Franca estate. Villa Franca estate Nyumba Kumi chairman Peter Amunga said the officer had not been seen for two days. "He lives in an extension of a main house. The person living in the main house had noticed the door to the officer's house had been open for more than a day and asked their house help to go and check what was happening. We also noticed his clothes had not been taken out to dry as was the norm," he said. Amunga said when the woman tried to open the door further, it wouldn't move and she then decided to call the security guards to help. "When they arrived and opened the door, they found the body lying on the floor," he said. A neighbour by the name Charles Ng'ang'a reported the matter to the police, saying he had noticed a foul smell emanating from Kenei's house. The cop was on duty when the Sh39 billion fake military arms deal was being signed by former Sports CS Rashid Echesa and two businessmen. The officer, who was expected to record a statement, had not been seen for two days. A Jericho pistol was recovered from the single room Kenei lived in along with 11 rounds of ammunition. A police report stated Kenei might have committed suicide. It said a note with the words, "Call my cousin Ben" were found in the servant quarter. The bullet that killed the cop hit the chin and exited through the head, officers at the scene said. The body had started decomposing and it is suspected he died a day or two ago. The officer's body was moved to City Mortuary. Amunga described Kenei as a friendly man who was always ready to help anyone who needed assistance. "If he found someone's car stuck, he was always ready to help out," he said. Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti went to the scene on Thursday evening to lead the probe.