Two pregnant students stuck in Wuhan are now calling on the government to facilitate their evacuation to access medication in Kenya. The two are among 100 students who have been in the coronavirus hit district in China for the last 35 days. A seven month pregnant Olivia Njiri told spokesman Cyrus Oguna that since the lock-down on the disease, she has not accessed medical assistant. Olivia said though the government had been in constant communication with them, their situation is getting worse by the day. Speaking to Oguna on Spice FM, Olivia said students have run out of basic supplies and left stranded. “We are grateful that the government is thinking about us and that they gave us some money, but my question is how are we going to use this money, what are we supposed to buy, we are in a lock down, we cannot access food stores nor supermarkets,” she said. She narrated how the students have run out of masks and other amenities and thus they cannot risk being exposed. Olivia said the students though being quarantined in 14 different locations, they are willing to be evacuated and quarantined at home. Her sentiments were echoed by Kelvin Tole who said his six month pregnant wife has developed complications and unfortunately she has not been able access any medication. Tole said, Chinese authorities had informed them if they took risk to go to the hospital they would be exposing themselves to the virus. “The only solution we’ve been told is that our government intervenes to see if the two who are pregnant can be flown to Kenya,” he said. But Oguna in his response said the government is assessing the situation and objectively a decision will be made on whether to bring the students back home. “Situation is improving and thus we are confident that our nationals in China are safe. Kenyan Government through our Embassy in Beijing is taking care of the two expectant ladies and we are confident they are in good conditions,” Oguna said. According to Oguna, China Government and the Kenyan Ambassador to China Sarah Serem have been in constant communication with all students in Wuhan and sharing supplies with them. He said apart from the Sh1.3 million given to the students in Wuhan, some Sh10 million has been disbursed and will be distributed to Kenyan nationals within the district. “In efforts to minimise transmission of the virus the safest place for the students to be is Wuhan which is in lock down, based on the fact that countries that have evacuated their nationals have had one of their nationals spread CoronaVirus to the rest in the plane,” Oguna said. Oguna said though the students might be lacking some essentials, the government is happy they are safe. “For now the matters might be drawn to attention with an element of emotions but even as we contemplate on whether to evacuate them we are broadening the consultations that the exercise is conducted in a rationale and objective manner,’ Oguna said.