Increased World Bank investments in Turkana county are showing positive results in health and agricultural activity. The increased Turkana investments are part of the North and Northeastern Initiative (Nedi), which is showing good results overall. Abdu Muwonge, senior urban development specialist with the World Bank, said they are working closely with the national government to deliver good results. He is team leader for the Kenya Urban Support Programme. Muwonge said health has improved and maternal and child health have also improved. More mothers deliver in health facilities and attend at least four antenatal care sessions and more children are fully immunised. Agricultural production has also improved. Turkana county has set up a county coordination unit for Nedi. Lodwar municipality has improved. The county has set up street lighting projects that contribute to safety and economic activity, " Muwonge said. In the transport sector, 46 per cent of the planned tarmac sections are complete for the East Africa Regional Transport, Trade and Development Facilitation Project. The remaining works are on course. Muwonge and his team were reviewing the progress of the North and Northeastern Eastern Initiative. The Nedi projects are aligned with the County Integrated Development Plan and will greatly help accelerate economic growth and livelihoods," Deputy Governor Peter Lotethiro said. In Turkana, the project focusses on off-grid solar access; improving livestock and agricultural productivity, transport and internet connectivity, resilience; social safety nets and livelihoods, improving county government functioning and improving health, education and urban development. Programme leader Helene Carlsson Rex said the successful implementation of the Nedi will require close collaboration between the county and national governments. She said it's crucial to improve funds flow, monitor and report results systematically, ensure operational maintenance and focus on community engagement. Carlsson Rex said given the connectivity challenges in the region, the World Bank is supporting counterparts to explore innovative technology to monitor results using technology and community engagement. Turkana is one of the 10 counties benefitting from Nedi launched in 2018. (Edited by V. Graham)