The government has put on notice NGOs exploiting orphans and vulnerable children to solicit for funds from well-wishers. Kibra deputy county commissioner Gideon Ombongi reprimanded a section of NGOs that he said claim they are engaged in the care of orphans, vulnerable children and people with disabilities yet the contrary is true. “A number of NGOs write proposals seeking funds to help the vulnerable children but the same is not transmitted to them. Instead, they use the funds to rent offices in leafy suburbs," Ombongi said. Speaking during a Nairobi City County Alcoholic Drinks Control and Licensing Board workshop in Kibra early this week, Ombongi directed chiefs and their assistants to be on the lookout for such organisations so that appropriate action is taken. He, however, lauded those implementing development projects and promoting civic education in the area. The DCC noted Nairobi has the highest number of NGOs at 1,252 followed by Kiambu with 396, Kisumu (387), Nakuru (372), Kajiado (335) and Mombasa (282). Out of the 11,262 NGOs registered in the country, only 8,893 are actively engaged in projects, a report released by the NGO Board says. According to the report released last week, in the last financial year, 3,028 organisations received Sh165.9 billion in funding — an eight per cent increase compared to the previous year where 2,776 NGOs reported receiving Sh153.2 billion from donors, local partners, income-generating activities and undisclosed sources. On security, Ombongi noted four young men who have been terrorising motorists and residents have been arrested and will be arraigned. Nairobi City County Alcoholic Drinks Control and Licensing Board vice chairperson Rosalind Gichuki warned bar owners against noise pollution and violating the Mututho law. “The board will not hesitate to revoke liquor licenses of bars that violate the Act,” she said. NCCLB member Leonard Mungai said the board has received numerous complaints over noise pollution and had convened meetings between residents and club owners to address the issue. “Residents are aggrieved by the noise from nightclubs, which deprives them of sleep," Mungai said. Kibra residents urged the board to close down liquor outlets because they are in contravention of the Environmental Management and Co-ordination (Noise and Excessive Vibration Pollution) regulations. Some of the liquor outlets owners, however, said they had put in place mechanisms to ensure there was a peaceful and environmentally compliant coexistence with their neighbours.