The Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka has directed the Senate Committee on Health to summon health CS Rachel Omamo to shed light on the preparedness of the country. The Senate spends its better part on Thursday afternoon to discuss the issue after the country allowed the Chinese flight to land at JKIA on Wednesday. The health committee chair Michael Mbito had said that they had written to the CS asking her to appear, but Lusaka said the matter is too serious to handle through the letters. "You may need to walk to the minister or use whatever means but we want a proper response by Tuesday next week. We do not doubt the competences of those people in those dockets but some of the things they are talking about are making Kenyans even more worried than they had been," Lusaka said. The Speaker also wants the CS in charge of Disaster Management to be summoned to share the practical solutions that they have in place. He said the country is handling things lightly and is joking with the lives of Kenyans. Narok senator Ledama Olekina raised the matter before the house, questioning how JKIA allowed the China Southern flight to land in the country. Makueni senator Mutula Kilonzo Junior dismissed the self-quarantine method which the ministry of health had issued to the 239 passengers on China plane. "To suggest that anyone who comes from China must go into a self-quarantine is something that is not known in medical terms and is wrong," Mutula said. Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja said WHO reported that the entire world is not fully prepared to handle the outbreak and that Kenya as well is not prepared. As Senators discussed the matter, a section of MPs wanted all the Chinese airlines suspended from landing at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. Led by Minority leader John Mbadi the MPs said it was a careless move for those responsible to have cleared a China Southern Airline plane on Kenyan soil despite the scare of the coronavirus outbreak. The debate over the Chinese airplane comes even as more planes are expected to land at JKIA starting Friday. The legislators took issues with the move after Foreign Affairs CS Raychelle Omamo failed to give clear details as to why the airline was cleared. "We are treating Kenyans in Wuhan in a more delicate and sensitive way than China flights arriving in Kenya," Omamo told the Defense and Foreign Relations Committee. "Our focus are on the students locked down there...we have to deal with them in a more delicate and sensitive way given that they are in the epicentre. We have to give them special attention, monitor their well being constantly," she added. The CS said the China Southern Airlines that arrived with the 239 passengers was dealt with according to WHO guidelines and the decision was made in the best interest of the country.