  Ndaragwa MP Jeremiah Kioni has asked his political opponents to heed President Uhuru Kenyatta's call to shun politics and focus on development. Kioni who spoke to the Star on the phone on Tuesday said it was wrong for those eying his seat to resort to dirty politics at the expense of development. He was reacting to a demonstration in Shamata in his constituency on Monday which he said was sponsored by his political opponents. “Even when you are in office, you would want others to help you develop," Kioni said. The demonstrators were protesting the poor state of Shamata-Mairi Inya road. They carried twigs and placards and lit bonfires before demolishing a culvert at Kwa Mukunya area. They said the road had been earmarked for tarmacking last year but nothing had happened. They also dug two trenches across the road between Muhaka-ini and Karimai-ini to cut off the movement of automobiles along the road. The Shamata-Mairi Inya road connects the area to the Nyeri-Nyahururu road. “We have seen roads being done in Ol Kalou and elsewhere while in Shamata ward, we suffer in silence. We wonder if we elected leaders to continue suffering. Our current MP and other leaders have always used this road as a campaign tool saying it will be tarmacked," a resident said Others said the demonstration was sponsored by former Nyandarua water executive Simon Ng'ang'a who is eying the Ndaragwa parliamentary seat. Ng'ang'a was sacked by Governor Francis Kimemia in August last year. They said meetings to plan the demonstration were held at a pub in Shamata trading centre. “Some boda boda riders and touts were given money and alcohol to destroy the culvert and dig trenches. It was wrong. People have a right to demonstrate but not to destroy public property. Now the transport from Nyahururu to Shamata and other areas is disrupted, and my wife is expectant. What happens if she goes into labour at night?" a resident who did not want to be named said. Another resident said the road was destroyed by the heavy rains in the area and that it was still impossible for lorries to access local quarries to get hardcore to fix potholes. "But there is a moneyed politician who wants the Ndaragwa MP seat who incited us to demonstrate saying the government has neglected us for years," the man said. Speaking to the Star on Monday evening, Ng’ang’a threatened stern action against anyone who implicates him. He said he had been away and was notified about the demonstration by area MCA on Sunday evening. “I am travelling from Nairobi to record a statement at Ol Kalou. I just want one name of a person who will say I was involved. If I can get just one person or two, they will have to explain," Ng'ang'a said on the phone Kioni apologised for the poor state of roads in Ndaragwa and promised to have them upgraded before 2022. “I also understand and appreciate that political competitors would want to capitalise on the current situation, but the positive thing to do is join hands and bring change as opposed to destruction and creating bad faith," the MP said. Kioni called on the locals to be patient, saying the road will be upgraded. “We have waited since 1963. Why is it that we cannot wait for another three days? he said. The MP said those sponsoring the demonstrations had last year sponsored a suit to block the tarmacking of the road but lost. He said they now want to make it difficult for the contractor to move to the site by becoming hostile. “Such characters are best left to be consumed by their own folly. Sponsoring such demos is a mark of poor leadership," Kioni said.  edited by peter obuya