Kenya Airways has defended its planned restructuring as intended to help it out of recurrent financial trouble. Employees, through the Kenya Aviation Workers Union, have opposed the restructuring in an application filed at the Employment and Labour Relations Court and the national carrier is fighting to have its plans go through. Judge Hellen Wasilwa has extended the order suspending the restructuring. In court documents, the airline argues that it has faced financial challenges for a considerable time, hence its board of directors and management made decisions aimed at turning it around and securing its position as the Pride of Africa. It was a result of this resolve that last year, the firm undertook to restructure its supply chain and facilities department. This followed the audits carried out in the first and second quarters of 2019, which revealed the department was operating unsatisfactorily. "Upon presentation to the audit and risk committee of the board of directors, Kenya Airways, in accordance with its board charter, resolved to have the department restructured to improve efficiency and productivity," the airline says. It maintains that at all times, it has the prerogative to change its organisational structure to suit its needs and align it with its strategy. And in seeking to comply with the labour laws, Kenya Airways had on July 4, 2019, notified the labour commissioner that it was involved in a restructuring that would result in redundancies. It also sought to assure the commissioner that it was committed to a lawful exercise that upholds the dignity and respect of all its employees. "Consequently, the management came up with a five-year plan and an organisational structure that would suit the airline’s needs and it was approved by the board,” court papers read. The restructuring of the supply chain and facilities department seeks to, among other benefits, ensure employees have the requisite qualifications and are suited to their positions. The airline added that it is only after the process is complete and all positions filled that it would conclusively determine which employees would not have been placed in the new structure so they can be issued with notices of termination on account of redundancy. Currently, no employee has had their employment terminated and they continue working for the airline. The case will be heard on April 2.