The government is targeting at least 2,000 new jobs in the maritime sector annually by exploiting resources and opportunities in the blue economy . It hopes to ride on increased inter-governmental collaboration and partnership with international shipping lines, mainly the Mediterranean Shipping Company (MSC), for jobs on  cruise and cargo vessels. Yesterday, the the State Department for Shipping and Maritime signed an agreement with the State Department for Youth, to fund youths in acquiring clearance to work on vessels. Through the Youth Enterprise Development Fund, persons seeking documentation to work on ships will be funded through a revolving fund. According to sector players, it requires at least Sh120,000 for pre-embarkation procedures and preparation including medical examinations and other certification formalities needed to work on vessels. “All these requirements do not come without a cost, and this presents a financial burden on the recruits,”Shipping and Maritime Affairs PS Nancy Karigithu said. The funds, she said will help in ensuring seamless recruitment and embarkation. At least 50 Kenyan seafarers are currently stuck in processing required documents to commence working on vessels. “Alot of youths are unable to join because of the costly process in securing documentation. We ask the government to start disbursing the funds immediately,”Seafarers Union of Kenya secretary general Stephen Owaki said. Julius Korir,PS State Department of Youth, said the funds will be given as interest free loans , to be repaid once the youth secure jobs on vessels. “Th e government is making great strides in creating employment for the youth as we implement the Big Four Agenda. One are is the maritime sector which has huge potential for jobs,” Korir said. At least 400 youths have been employed on vessels in the last one year, majority being absorbed by Mediterranean Shipping Company(MSC). “The target is to have no less than 2,000 youth employed annually in this manner,” Karigithu said. The Swiss-Italian international shipping line is also working closely with the government in the revival of the Kenya National Shipping Line(KNSL), which has been dormant for the last 22 years. Mismanagement sent the entity, which was established in 1987, into debt and loss of business in an untapped Sh304 billion business potential— the amount Kenyan importers pay as freight charges to foreign firms. It revival will generate jobs, cut on the high import bill and see the country gain access to to more than 500 ports across the world. International Transport Federation (ITF) has since called on Kenyan youth to take up the “well paying” jobs in the maritime sector, which has been dominated by Philippines and Indians. “Half the crew on board these vessels should be Kenyans,” shipping inspector and ITF representative Betty Makena said. ITF recommended rates for an ordinary seaman is quoted within a range of $1,000(about Sh100,830).