Plans are being hatched to impeach Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya. Some MCAs referred to as the G7 have accused the governor of underperformance and failure to deliver on promises he made to residents. One of the G7 members, Mwinyi Burudai, said the impeachment is real and it is not a threat. He accused Mvurya of embezzlement, undermining the powers of the county assembly and misusing his office. Majority leader Raia Mkungu (Ramisi) said county ministers are unable to perform their constitutional duties because of inadequate allocation of development funds. "Each financial year, money is returned to Nairobi, while CEC members have nothing to run projects," Mkungu said. He said they plan to move a motion in the assembly to impeach Mvurya as soon as the ongoing investigations find him guilty. Mkungu said the county chief and his deputy are being scrutinised by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, among other state agencies. Burudai said they will soon release a statement over the issue. The G7 consists of MCAs mainly from the lower region of the county. Others include Omar Hamisi (Kinondo), Mwinyi Mwasera (Waa-Ngombeni) and Yusuph Mbwana (Vanga). For his part, Mvurya said the private meetings being orchestrated by the MCAs will not yield much. "I'm aware some individuals hold their talks in the neighbouring county and the main subject is to take away my governorship," he said. He spoke at Nyumba Mbovu in Msambweni constituency where he issued bursary cheques. The county boss said he is not shaken by the move and is ready for the stiff battles ahead. He advised the MCAs to openly exercise their constitutional rights, rather than hiding in closed-door conferences. "This is a free country. I don't get why you would mask yourselves and speak behind curtains," he said. He said he has done his best to deliver on his promises and only his good record will keep him on the throne. Mvurya said he is saddened that some people politicise everything, instead of uniting to serve the electorate. He said individuals focussing on politicking on a daily basis are the ones to be evicted from their seats because they have proved to be imprudent. "These are the kind of people who should be sent home. The nature of the work they are doing is evident that they are incapable of holding those positions," he said. Mvurya said he won't relent to critics but will continue to serve justly and fairly.