Several MP s who attended the fourth Building Bridges Initiative at Kitui Stadium on Saturday condemned Governor Ngilu’s orders to evict Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria. As Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana was reading Southeastern region BBI resolutions, Moses Kuria and Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen made their way to the main dais. The duo did not have seats and as arrangements were being made to have them seated, Governor Charity Ngilu ordered Kuria out of the rally. “Nobody will abuse Mheshimiwa Rais na aingie kwa mkutano wangu, hakuna, atolewe, atoke,” the governor said. The crowd was heard shouting that Kuria should be given a seat just like other leaders, stating the rally was meant to preach peace and not chase some leaders from the gathering. Kuria and Murkomen were given seats and the scuffle that lasted for minutes was resolved, but not the rancour. Following the incident, several members of National Assembly termed the behaviour unacceptable. Host MP Makali Mulu apologised to Kuria, said it was a big shame for him to be kicked out of the meeting, saying the melee spoiled the peaceful occasion. He said everyone is entitled to their own opinion and as Kitui MPs, they knew Deputy President William Ruto's allies were coming and wanted to host them. “We knew the two were coming and it was very bad to try to have them evicted from the meeting meant to preach peace,” Makali said. The Kitui Central MP also thanked government security officers who intervened and surrounded Kuria, rescuing him those Makali called goons. His counterpart from Kitui South, Rachael Kaki said that she does not support eviction of leaders from the rally as everyone is free to go into any part of the country. Kaki further said it was a personal decision to chase away the controversial MP — and not that of Kitui residents. “The community has not participated in throwing our colleague out of the rally, we are peaceful people free from chaos,” Kaki stated. The Jubilee legislator called for peaceful BBI meetings, saying she and other Ukambani adding she and other hUkambani legislators will attend all BBI rallies across the country. Embakasi South MP Julius Mawathe called the uproar unfortunate. occurrence unfortunate. Kilome’s Thaddeus Nzambia called for unity as BBI advocates for peace and unity and not the turmoil what was witnessed on Saturday. (Edited by V. Graham)