Kitale Rugby Club host Kabarak University in the finals of Rift Valley KRU Nationwide final on Saturday as they seek to return to KRU Championship. The match will be played at St. Anthony's Boys High School grounds and the club's founding patron Ben Amboko has warned his charges against complacency. “It's a very crucial stage and Kitale are not taking chances considering this match will play a key role in the promotion battle. We are three games away from our promotion target, therefore nothing must go wrong,” said Amboko. Coach DJ Alveen said: “We have a very strong youthful squad that has been training together consistently. We are very confident of a win this weekend.” On his side, club's treasurer, Emmanuel Mengich paid glowing tribute to their  sponsors Ansoffs Consulting Ltd, Westfield Motors Ltd, Club Epic, County government of Trans Nzoia, St. Anthony's  High school, Kitale for supporting the club. “Without them, reaching this far would have been more difficult. We would also like to thank our fans for sticking with us through ups and downs. We would like to take this opportunity to invite the Trans Nzoia community to cheer their home team at St. Anthony'sHigh school,” said Mengich. Walter Malavi, who is a representative of fans, was also confident that they will  return to KRU Championship. “It has been a very tough season but the boys have shown how hungry they are to go back to play in the KRU Championship league,” said Malavi. Finalists from Nairobi, Western and Rift Valley are already through to the national quarterfinals while the outright winners in Coast and Central will seek to secure their tickets to this stage. In Nairobi region, Shamas Foundation will battle it out with Daystar Falcons at KCB Sports Club while in Central, former KRU Championship side JKUAT Cougars will host Embu RFC. Maseno University, coached by Shellan Nyawira, will welcome CITAM Kisumu while in the Coast regional final, Technical University of Mombasa hosts Malindi RFC at Mombasa Sports Club. 