Since their promotion to the local top-flight a decade ago, Cutchi Leva have never beaten Kanbis and Swamibapa and the script was no different when they came up against the same opposition in the Nairobi Invitational Twenty20 matches over the weekend. Their eight and nine wickets loss to Swamibapa and Kanbis respectively ensured that the Nairobi West-based side will have to wait longer before popping the champagne at the expense of the two heavyweights. “We just didn’t click at all this weekend. To be competitive, we had to put in a fight but it’s clear we didn’t do that and that’s why our goal of ending the losing run has been delayed further,” skipper Niraj Patel said. Even with their best players in action, Cutchi Leva could not give the two unbeaten sides something sweat for at Nairobi Jaffery and Eastleigh High School. On Saturday, Swamibapa's Emmanuel Bundi tormented Cutchi Leva’s batting order with four wickets before Naman Patel's half-ton ensured that the work was done in 12.2 overs in pursuit for 115. Bundi had the visitors on 19 for 4 after 5.5 overs to give his side a comfortable advantage. Vishal Bhojani (38) and Harshin Varsani (38) snitched up the inning with a fifth-wicket stand of 76 runs that got them to 95 with two overs to play. In reply, Naman and Rushab Patel shared an opening stand of 70 runs in only seven overs to set the ton for a comfortable win. Naman hit three sixes and five fours off 36 balls on his way to 50 while Rushab faced 20 balls to post 40. After the two fell in span of four overs with the board on 103, Irfan Karim and Francis Mutua scored the winning runs. The script was the same the following day at Eastleigh when Kanbis spinners restricted their hosts batting to 104 for 8. Mikunj Pindoria (3 for 23) and Narendra Patel (3 for 21) were the pick of the bowlers as Cutch Leva middle order was unsettled by numerous bowling changes by the hosts. They lost their openers for 18 runs and the situation was the same throughout the inning with no meaningful stands being formed. Last man Nilesh Nathani with 20 was the top scorer for the visitors. In reply, Kanbis lost Dhiren Gondaria (53 off 29 balls) with only seven runs required. The hundred opening stand came off 8.2 overs with Narendra remaining unbeaten on 49 from 22 balls. The stand witnessed five sixes and 12 boundaries.