 Deputy President William Ruto’s Uasin Gishu allies have ruled out the holding of Building Bridges Initiative popularisation forums in the county. They told the media in Eldoret on Monday that those supporting BBI were spreading hate and listing some communities instead of uniting Kenyans. Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi and his Soy counterpart Caleb Kositany said they will not allow the BBI forums under the leadership of ODM leader Raila Odinga in any part of the county. “We will not remain silent and allow hate-mongering that has been witnessed in Kitui, Kisii and Mombasa to be transferred to Eldoret. Any meeting must be organised by the leadership of the area, not outsiders,” Sudi said. The two alleged that BBI meetings had been turned into forums of painting the name of the Deputy President in a bad light by portraying him as a critic of the initiative birthed by the March 2018 handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila. They said they would only allow rallies organised by the task force led by Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji. They accused Raila of dividing Kenyans through tribal affiliations in the name of popularising the initiative. Kositany said they will hold their own rally as they are better placed to articulate the problems faced by the residents. The MP hit out at Narok Senator Ladema ole Kina for his "tribal remarks" under the guise of defending Maa community interests. He termed the utterances as a recipe for chaos. “If those are the kind of statements made at the rallies, then we can as well say goodbye to such forums in our county because we do not want to polarise the country any further." Kina was quoted by a section of the media saying that the Maasai community was overexploited by selfish individuals after buying their land, subdividing it and then selling it exorbitantly. The vocal senator also accused the advantaged individuals of taking advantage of the situation to buy their way into politics, thus ending up dominating the community’s leadership. Edited by R.Wamochie