The ramifications of Kenya Power exit as the shirt sponsor to Kenyan Premier League outfit Western Stima have begun to bite. The club confirmed that the sponsor has directed them to terminate the contracts of the players, citing lack of money to cater for their salaries and allowances. The club, alongside the National Super League duo of Nairobi Stima and Coast Stima, were dealt a blow last month when the giant power company announced their intention to scrap off their local sponsorships. The Kisumu-based outfit have begun feeling the heat as the senior club official who did not want to be mentioned for fear of reprisal, revealed that the sponsor was pushing to have the players' contracts cut even without issuing a one month notice. He also added that, the firm was reluctant to buy out the contracts of the players. The official, a former player, said he had not shared the rather bitter pill to swallow with the players for fear of litigation for unfair termination of their contracts. He, however, hinted that before issuing the notice to cut ties, the sponsor had cleared the January dues but was uncertain of paying the February and subsequent months on time. “They have verbally told us to terminate the contracts of the players but I am yet to share the communication with them because their input on match days will dwindle. "The sponsor is not willing to follow due process and I fear the players will gang up and sue us for wrongful dismissal. "The only advantage we have is that we have paid the January salaries and allowances but things don't look good going forward,” said the senior official Despite the scare, the official insisted that the club will not fold. He, however, expressed fears of their good run and efforts going down the drain as well as dishing free points should they fail to get another source of income to bankroll their activities. Stima are currently placed seventh with 31 points. “We can not fathom disbanding the club as we are currently doing well in the league. However, if we do not get an alternative source of income, we may dish out walkovers. "My biggest worry is how we will be able to honour our remaining matches and pay salaries before strategising for the next season,” he added.