Rangers in Mt Kenya forest will benefit from funds raised by a group of conservationists at the weekend. The funds will buy fire fighting equipment, which will be donated to the Kenya Forest Service. Mt Kenya Trust held the 10 to 4 Mountain Bike Challenge at the Borana Race village near Mt Kenya in Timau to raise the funds. “We keep some funds aside for firefighting since you never know what’s going to happen. Taking part in the event means that you have directly helped to plant trees, protect wildlife habitats and let river waters flow,” said Sussie Weeks, the executive director for Mt Kenya Trust. Early last year, more than 100 fire incidents destroyed at least 90,000 hectares of forest cover valued at Sh1 billion inside the Mt Kenya National Park, according to former chief conservator of forests Monica Kalenda. Weeks said the 10 to 4 funds gives will supply rangers with firefighting equipment. She said they hoped to get more funds for firefighting. Mt Kenya region is important since it is a major catchment area that affects business in Nairobi and people all the way to Tana River. Weeks said they were conserving the mountain because it provides economic service in terms of water, electricity and agriculture. “We love this area and getting our children being involved means that it makes them aware of the area that they live in and it is good for them to push themselves a little bit,” said Kerry Glen, one of the participants. She said they were raising money to support the mountain and Kenya. Mt Kenya Trust uses the funds it raise to pay rangers, fence human-conflict zones and keep vehicles on the mountain. Sussie said that this event helps to bring people together to remember that the environment feeds and protects humanity. “We take a holistic approach to work with the communities and not just the tree planting. We take a holistic approach to make sure that we touch on anything and everything that affects the environment of Mt Kenya,” she said. Apart from protecting the environment, the trust provides services such as health care for women . They also empower people on the importance of protecting the environment.