This Valentine's was one of a kind for neighbours who were in January charged at Makadara court for causing an affray over Sh10 debt after they were awarded a Sh10,000 package each by city lawyer Donald Kipkorir. The Star Head of Content Paul Ilado handed the package to the three neighbours on behalf of Kipkorir, saying he was moved after reading the article published in the Star about them fighting over Sh10 debt. “I was saddened that neighbours could fight over Sh10 to the extent of being charged,” Ilado said. On January 20,  Angelina Kerubo, Ruth Kwamboka and Ongeri Ntabo were charged with causing a public disturbance at Kahawa West in Nairobi. It was reported that Kerubo had asked Kwamboka to repay Sh10 she had lent her. But instead, Kwamboka insisted Kerubo also owed her Sh10. Kerubo later visited Kwamboka's house and threw a Sh10 coin at her door and began insulting her, the court heard. “She referred to me as an uncircumcised young girl and further demanded that I come out of my house for a fight,” Kwamboka said. They then started fighting before Kerubo’s husband Ongeri joined in support of his wife. They both pleaded guilty and asked the court to allow them to resolve the matter outside the court 'as they had forgiven each other'. Kerubo and Kwamboka–both mothers of three and from a similar background–told Ilado that it was not their wish to fight but tough economic times pushed them to do so. "I didn't manage to go beyond high school, at the moment I am jobless and life is full of struggle, every single coin I handle is valuable," Kerubo said. She said she needed the Sh10 to buy soap to do her children's laundry "but got disappointed when Kwamboka could not repay back". Ilado advised them to use the money to put up small-scale businesses that can help them generate income. The trio could not hide their joy after receiving the packages, they promised to give an account after six months. Edited by R.Wamochie They then started fighting before Kerubo’s husband Ongeri joined in support of his wife. They both pleaded guilty and asked the court to allow them to resolve the matter outside the court 'as they had forgiven each other'. Kerubo and Kwamboka–both mothers of three and from a similar background–told Ilado that it was not their wish to fight but tough economic times pushed them to do so. "I didn't manage to go beyond high school, at the moment I am jobless and life is full of struggle, every single coin I handle is valuable," Kerubo said. She said she needed the Sh10 to buy soap to do her children's laundry "but got disappointed when Kwamboka could not repay back". Ilado advised them to use the money to put up small-scale businesses that can help them generate income. The trio could not hide their joy after receiving the packages, they promised to give an account after six months. Edited by R.Wamochie