The US government has warned that terrorist groups may be plotting an attack against a major hotel in Nairobi. Through their Embassy in Nairobi, the Trump's administration, however, said the exact hotel has not been identified, but it is believed to be a hotel popular with tourists and business travellers. "Exercise increased vigilance when visiting or staying at hotels in the Nairobi area. If staying at a hotel, be aware of the hotel’s evacuation plan. Plan ahead of time how you would exit the hotel in case of an emergency," read an alert on its website. The alert advised travellers to review their personal security plans, be aware of their surroundings and monitor local media for updates. According to the Embassy's spokesperson, the United States and Kenya work closely to share information and monitor the security environment in the country. "The U.S. Department of State provides travel information globally, including on security issues, to U.S. citizens for their information and preparedness. - We have no greater responsibility than the safety and security of U.S. citizens overseas," a statement from the Embassy read. The Embassy said such timely security alerts to U.S. citizens provide timely information so they can make informed travel decisions. The alert comes in even as the Inspector General of police assured Kenyans all was well. In a statement to newsrooms, Mutyambai said Kenyans should go on with their normal day to day activities without any fear. "Even as we take steps to improve security across the country, there are still a few criminal elements who may wish to cause harm to the public. We have enhanced police deployment in our cities, towns and particularly in those parts of the country where criminal elements have occasionally instigated criminal activities," Mutyambai said. He said police have enhanced border surveillance to ensure that criminal elements are cut from entering the country. "However, we wish to caution the members of the public to be extra vigilant even as the police and other security agencies continue to work round the clock to ensure the safety and security of our country and Kenyans at large," he said.