SportPesa has confirmed that it will no longer be the principal partner of Everton Football Club. This comes after the English club announced the end of their partnership on Sunday. In a statement on Monday, Sportpesa said cutting off their sponsorship with Everton is in line with the firm's new business strategy. "SportPesa has decided to change some of its global sponsorships in line with its new business strategy and sponsorships approach. In light of this SportPesa will not continue with some of these partnerships after the completion of the 2019/2020 season," he said. "To this end, SportPesa will no longer be on the front of the shirt of Everton as a principal partner after the 2019/2020 season." Sportpesa thanked the firm's partners and fans citing support and participation in the growth of the dwindling company. "We are proud of this partnership for providing development and talent exposure opportunities to our local footballers," Sportpesa said. The betting firm, however, said it will continue with its local and grass-root partnerships with football clubs such as Simba and Yanga SC in Tanzania. "They are the cornerstone of our sports development strategy by evaluating these opportunities as they come and as evidenced by the continuing partnership," it added. Sportpesa said it is already excited for the new horizons and opportunities that the shift will bring along. Everton on their part said the agreement was reached following a comprehensive review by the Club of its commercial strategy in line with its vision and future growth plans. "This has been a difficult decision but one that allows us to best deliver on our commercial plan and to grasp the new opportunities now open to us," a club spokesperson said. “The Club would like to thank SportPesa for all of the work that has been done together. Our partnership has seen our first team visit Africa on two occasions, as well as former players and Club staff take part in numerous activations in the region. This has allowed us to grow our own footprint in Africa and further strengthen our special relationship with the continent.”