 City Hall has summoned two chemists to appear in its court to faces charges of administering expired drugs to unsuspecting patients. Jaron Chaboya and Michael Mukaya, directors at Africare Limited in South B, will be charged on February 19 according to Nairobi county deputy director of public health Wilson Lang'at. Lang'at on Tuesday said they found expired drugs at the facility. Some drugs found being administered on patients are said to have expired in March 2019. Acetone, HCL, Alkaline Phosphate, Field Stain B are some of the drugs recovered at the facility. "Our officers were on routine inspection of health facilities and l can confirm that we have a case at Africare Limited and the same is now in court," Lang'at said. He has urged city residents to remain cautious. City Hall is collaborating with state agencies to reinforce policies on the quality of drugs and professional conduct of health practitioners. The county has put to notice health facilities selling expired drugs, warning that their licenses will be revoked. "I'm appealing to members of the public to be cautious and check the expiry date on the drug labels," Langat said. Last year, a report by the county assembly Public Accounts Committee said the health department was ‘allowing’ county hospitals to stock expired drugs. The report said Mbagathi Hospital was holding expired drugs and pharmaceutical items amounting to more than Sh1.4 million. The report said the hospital’s management could not explain why the drugs expired. Most were supplied by the Kenya Medical Supplies Agency. “It was not clear whether the items were acquired following user requests and procurement plans. The hospital’s pharmaceutical department and stores also had expired drugs and pharmaceutical items amounting to Sh1,410,826,” the report says. The report was based on the committee’s consideration of the Auditor General’s report on the financial statements of Nairobi City County for the year ended June 30, 2017. “Procurement of drugs that are likely to expire in a short while leads to loss of public resources and in some instances, if used, exposes risks to patients in public hospitals.” Among the expired drugs were paracetamol, antacids, dental cartridges, hydrogen peroxide, ranitidine injection, suxamethonium, ceftazidime, furosemide injection, lignocaine, promethazine and heavy bupivacaine. Others are levothyroxine, bisacodyl, bupicaine heavy, rocephine, dextrose, x-pen, gabapentin, amlodipine, darrows, phenytoin injection and amitryptilline. City Hall defended itself against the claims and attributed the expiry of the drugs to the prolonged doctors’ strike that occurred between December 2016 and March 2017 and the nurses’ strike that followed from June to November 2017.  edited by peter obuya