The second generation of locusts must be killed before the rainy season, UN agency Food and Agriculture Organisation has said. "Hoppers are coming in but we are happy the government is taking action directly and with partners both in the mobilisation of resources and building capacity," FAO Kenya representative Tobias Takavarsha said. "As we speak now, we have had responses from different donors reaching up to $30 million out of the regional projection of $135 million which is needed." The official cautioned that the locusts are still breeding, noting that they have since invaded countries like Uganda which were not initially affected. "Countries who were in the first groups have increased. We now have potential threats in countries such as Uganda and Tanzania which were not listed as primary – (like) Ethiopia, Somalia and Kenya," he said. Takavarsha addressed the press on the sidelines of Community Land Act meeting at Sheraton Hotel's Four Points in Nairobi. "At the appropriate time, FAO will be able to announce the package of what has been received and what has been used," he said. To eliminate the pest, Takavarsha said, they are supporting governments in the procurement of planes to complement what they have, pesticides and in training and building capacity for hand spraying. The technical aspect is from FAO, he said. However, there are other partners to make sure there are no further effects on food security and livelihood. On Wednesday, Agriculture CS Peter Munya said the slow and complex process of procuring effective chemicals and overreliance on development partners have hampered the ongoing efforts to fight locusts. His ministry has had to rely on FAO to provide resources and acquire the chemicals after the depletion of the Sh230 million set aside by the Treasury to counter the pest. The CS, who appeared before the Senate Agriculture committee, said the situation has been complicated by the fact that the only effective chemicals can only be procured from either Japan or Australia. "We have a serious challenge with the availability of chemicals. Effective chemicals are not locally available. We rely on the private sector, which sometimes lies to you." The CS lamented that FAO has been slow in procuring and importing chemical Fenitrothion 96 ULV. "We have even tried to engage the government of Australia so we can procure government to government, but they have said they don’t want to get involved in private affairs," he said. Some 100,000 litres ordered from Australia are yet to reach the country, more than two weeks since the state asked FAO to procure the chemical, the CS said. So far, 28,000 litres of the control pesticides have been procured and distributed for use in 18 counties. Edited by R.Wamochie