Inooro TV news anchor and gospel singer Winnie Rose Wangui has reminisced about losing her mother on the day she was launching her music video. She says after her marriage failed 59 days after the wedding, her mother died. "I wanted to build her a house with the money I would collect from my music launch, which was a few days away, when she passed on," she narrated. "She did not wait. That was sad and painful," she emotionally said. Her mother took long in the theatre, and the family never understood what went on. "My dad chose not to follow up to know the cause of her death," she said. Winnie says she comes from a humble background and her mother struggled so hard to make sure she succeeds in life, the reason she loved her so much. "I used to cook githeri and beans and that is how I earned money and paid my first media school fees," she said. "I could not call mum to say I was struggling in Nairobi, but the day I told her, she sold her only cow and sent someone to pay the school fees for me." During her hustling days, the news anchor said the worst day was when a landlord locked her in her rented house. "He found me in the house and he locked me in and went away. I had nothing. He put a small padlock, and so I used a spoon to unlock the padlock, that is how I managed to get out," she recounted. Winnie says after her mother died, she had to take her siblings in her house and take care of them. "For reasons known to me, I accommodated them and it took longer for me to heal from both losing my mum and now my failed marriage," she said. She was almost quitting her media job. "I was not doing well. I even wanted to quit the job but someone advised me to go for counselling," she said. "She told me to go for counselling and a psychologist helped me move on. I took the initiative to go back to school and now I am doing psychology." The death of her mother led her to start Tunza Future Initiative, a project that is empowering needy women in raising their children. The initiative will be launched in April this year.