Senior citizens in Mwingi have expressed gratitude to the government for the Old Persons Cash Transfer programme. Scores of elderly citizens receiving the monthly payments could not hide their joy saying since the programme was started, their lives have never been the same. Ann Nzembi, 70, from Nguni location in Mwingi Central constituency, praised the government saying she is able to cater for her basic needs without depending on other people. “The government has sorted us out in a way that I don’t have to keep on begging for support from my children. I can now afford food and clothing on my own,” she said. Lukas Mwangangi, 75, from Waita location also in the same constituency, says that he can now afford a smile because the government has granted the elderly power to meet their basic needs. “We are very happy to be recognised by the government, now we feel wanted in society and in the whole country at large." Joseph Mavuli, 69, from Mwingi town, said before, the elderly were struggling to meet their basic needs including food and clothing, especially the poor and those abandoned by their family members, forcing them to beg for food from well-wishers. “At least we can enjoy the benefits of having a government that cares for its elderly,” Mavuli said. Mwingi Central subcounty Social Development Officer Paul Maina said more than 3,000 aged persons are benefitting from OPCT programme in Mwingi Central constituency. Maina further disclosed that the beneficiaries are receiving their monthly payment on time. "Whenever there is a delayed payment, it becomes difficult to explain to the old persons because they keep on coming to the office asking for money. The government has worked it out to ensure that old persons are able to receive payment on time,” he said. He, however, lamented over the high number of elderly people who possess outdated ID cards and urged them to apply for new ones to avoid inconveniences during payment. The programme was started in 2007 to provide regular and predictable cash transfer to poor and vulnerable old persons aged 65 and above. They receive Sh2,000 per month every two months through nominated payment service providers such as Kenya Commercial Bank, Equity Bank, Co-operative Bank and Post bank. The payment service providers have agents across the constituency thus reducing the distance travelled by the beneficiaries to access their stipend. Edited by R.Wamochie