Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetang'ula has pulled out of the presidential race to support ANC's Musalia Mudavadi in 2022. The move came as Luhya leaders called for unity of the community to consolidate their votes ahead of the 2022 general election. It also came in the wake of a call by Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli to merge the parties at Bukhungu sstadium during the BBI rally in Kakamega. Atwoli said a single party will accommodate all to the general election. “This time around, I won’t force myself in the same door my brother Mudavadi is going through. I will support him through for the sake of our people and form a strong base for our community to negotiate with the government of the day. When we unite our parties, we also call on you the people of Mulembe to unite and rally behind us,” Wetangul'a said. The Bungoma senator spoke at Emusutsu Secondary School in Hamisi subcounty at the funeral of Justice Daniel Aganyanya. Wetang'ula said the Jubilee administration had sidelined the Western region on both state jobs and development citing that the present government has blacklisted the region. His sentiments were echoed by Vihiga Senator George Khaniri. "The current administration will leave power with a huge debt that the next government may not be able to handle,” he said. While drumming up support for the BBI that has dominated the air space recently, Mudavadi said it should not be used to divide Kenyans. He said those who are leading campaigns should develop a unifying process for this nation and create a harmonious ground for all Kenyans. He urged politicians to stop pushing their personal agenda in BBI against the Kenyans' will. The ANC party boss said the two terms for the county chiefs is enough. "BBI was a result of politics where internal wars erupt after every election. Changing the commission after every election is not the solution to election malpractices we experience," Mudavadi said. He said the Independent Electoral and Boundary Commission and the Judiciary should be independent to serve the public. Wetang'ula backed his remarks urging Chief Justice David Maraga to write a memo quoting the percentage he requires annually for running activities. That is the only way to save the CJ from begging for money from the Executive,  Wetang'ula said. "What we are putting on this BBI should have resources so that we don't fail in implementing it. The team that led to the rebirth of the 2010 Constitution did not factor the cost of implementing it and thus why the country is crumbling economically," he said. He urged politicians to use BBI to revive what was missed in the 2010 Constitution but to follow the law. Edited by R.Wamochie