Kiambu Governor James Nyoro on Wednesday nominated Joyce Ngugi as his deputy. Ngugi is the chairperson of the National Council of Children Services. She is the widow of former MP Joseph Ngugi who collapsed at his Runda home on 21 May 2014. Nyoro was sworn in as Kiambu county boss on January 31, taking over from his impeached predecessor Ferdinand Waititu. Waititu had earlier moved to court seeking its orders to bar Nyoro from nominating his deputy, a decision which was dismissed by High court Judge James Makau. In his ruling, Makau said the appointment of a deputy governor was not a single act but a process. In his appointment on Wednesday, Nyoro named Joseph Nganga Murega as Health CEC, Wilson Mburu Kang'ethe (Finance),  Mary Kamau (Education) and  James Mitambo Maina (Land and Housing). David Kimani Kuria will be in charge of Water and Environment while Issabel Waiyaki will be in charge of Youth and Sports. Administration and Public Service will be headed by Margaret Waithera and Joseph Kamau will be in charge of Trade and Tourism. Kigo Njenga has been appointed as Roads CEC and Transport will be under Samuel Mugo. Nyoro had last week shelved the announcement of his deputy as the county mourned Kahawa Wendani MCA Cyrus Omondi. Omondi died in his hotel room in India on Wednesday. The MCA was in the Asian country for a workshop alongside his colleagues in the Education Committee. Nyoro had said residents should ignore rumours on the naming of a deputy governor and change of cabinet and await communication from his office.  "We are now mourning an MCA we all loved." Social media had claimed that Nyoro would announce his deputy governor last week. One of the social media alerts read: "Kiambu county governor James Karanja Nyoro has appointed Ms Caroline Waithera Ndung'u as his deputy governor." Some of the suggested names for DG included Annah Nyokabi, a former Kiambu Woman Representative, who is also President Uhuru Kenyatta's cousin, Ngugi, and John Mugwe, a former county Roads CEC. Nyoro took over the governor's job after the impeachment of Ferdinand Waititu last month. He had been the DG.