Agriculture CS Peter Munya has said like in most African coffee-growing countries save for Ethiopia, domestic coffee consumption is very low in Kenya. This is despite the increase in coffee shops in the country from 155 in 2016 to 278 by 2018. A national survey carried out in 2017-18 shows that domestic coffee consumption stood at three per cent of the national production. " To improve this, we have an ambitious programme among our reform agenda to promote domestic consumption. This, we expect will have a trickle-down effect and will trigger youth-driven growth in the sector through value addition,” he said. He was speaking on Friday during the 18th African Fine Coffee Conference and Exhibition held in Mombasa. Munya said the move will assist in increasing farmers' incomes, creating employment opportunities and at the same time stabilising coffee prices. Coffee is currently the third-highest foreign income earner in Kenya after tea and horticulture. Munya said the sub-sector has experienced a downward trend in production over the last 20 years. Last year, the country produced 43,000 metric tonnes of coffee valued at Sh21.68 billion. “But despite this, Kenya’s coffee continues to fetch premium prices in international markets, largely on account of its high quality. We are still far from exploiting the existing potential in coffee production and marketing, both in the local and international market. But we are keen on ensuring the growth of the sector in order to fully exploit the full potential,” the CS said. Anthony Muriithi, Agriculture and Food Authority interim director general, said the government is aggressively undertaking generic promotion of Kenyan agricultural produce in the export markets including coffee. “This has been achieved by coordinating stakeholders to conduct trade promotions of Kenyan coffee in strategic emerging coffee markets such as Malaysia, Korea and Morocco, America’s speciality market and Europe. This has positioned Kenyan coffee in the global market, fetching favourable prices." Muriithi said coffee is one of the most traded commodities globally. Coffee production has globally grown from 95.4 million bags in 1988-89 to 168 million bags in 2018-19. This global growth has, however, not been proportionately attained among the East Africa Community countries. The EAC production is 7,255,000 bags against the African production of 19,843,00 bags. EAC contributes 36 per cent of the continental production and 4.31 per cent to global production. Edited by R.Wamochie