Paul Kiongera is raring to make a return to the Kenya Premier League after missing in action since 2017. The forward signed for Wazito Football Club and made his debut for the club as a substitute in the Betway Shield Cup against Egerton. He last featured for AFC Leopards in the Kenya Premier League before going to Ireland, where he featured in an amateur league. Kiongera confirmed he had links with Borussia Monchengladbach when he was hot in his prime. “The former Harambee Stars coach Adel Amrouche had contacts at Monchengladbach and he even sent them my videos and they were impressed. I was going to sign with the team but I got injured,” he said. The player, whose career has been dogged with injuries does not regret playing in Ireland at the amateur level. The move did not stain his career as he was still hot in the market when he returned to the country, featuring for Ushuru FC in the National Super League in the previous season. Kiongera revealed despite signing for Wazito, he still had an array of offers from local clubs. “I had offers from clubs in the NSL and KPL,” he said. Being an injury-prone player, “Modo” as referred to by teammates and fans, is keen to maintain good fitness levels and help his team win as many games as possible. Having featured for the national team before, he still nurses hopes of representing the country despite stiff competition from players like Japanese-based Michael Olunga and Massoud Juma.  “If I get a call-up, I will be happy to play for my country once more,” he said. He, however, lamented that the standards of the league are not as high as he had left them. “The standards have dropped because teams are struggling financially.” Kiongera is not the only player to make a return to the premier league after a sabbatical. Ronald Okoth, who plays for Sofapaka FC also took time off from top flight football but made a return in the 2019/2020 season. The bulky forward had played for Mathare FC before leaving the club. He had also previously featured for Western Stima and Gor Mahia. Okoth, who is also a football pundit earned a contract with Sofapaka FC after impressing coach John Baraza while he was training with them.