A Naivasha court has acquitted nine suspects charged with causing the deaths of 48 people following the Solai dam tragedy two years ago. Naivasha chief magistrate Kennedy Bidali set the nine free citing lack of willingness and support from the DPP's office to prosecute the case. Those released include Perry Manusukh Kanasagara, the farm owner, and government officers. But victims of the tragedy who had been following the case were left in tears as they pondered their next move. Bidali laid the blame on the office of the DPP, noting that months since the case started little progress had been made. He accused the prosecution of holding the court hostage by failing to appear on many occasions. He said the nine accused deserved a fair trial which was not possible due to adjournments by the prosecution. “The court has on various occasions set aside 12 days for the case to be heard only for the prosecution to miss out without giving a proper explanation,” he said. The magistrate said 18 months since the case began, the office of the DPP had failed to produce a single witness or witness statement. “No court should be held to ransom by the office of the DPP and the accused have the right to a fair and speedy trail but the prosecution has time and again proved it was not ready to handle this case,” he said. Bidali noted that the ODPP last year indicated that it was seeking a plea bargain with the owner of the farm but no report had been made to the court in relation to this. Manusukh and the others were charged with 48 counts of manslaughter on May 9, 2018 in Solai, Nakuru, and failing to prepare an environmental impact assessment report. The other accused are Vinoj Jaya Kumar, Johnson Njuguna, Luka Kipyegen, Winnie Muthoni, Jacinta Were, Tomkin Odo Odhiambo, Williec Omondi and Lynette Cheruiyot. Addressing the court on behalf of the defense team, advocate F.I Mburu said that justice had been done after months of suffering for the nine. “In the period the nine suspects have not missed any single day and we are asking the court to discharge the sureties of the accused,” he said. Soon after the ruling, state counsel Catherine Mwaniki said they would appeal the ruling. “There was a petition by the victims of the tragedy to be enjoined in the case and we were waiting for that before kicking off this case,” she said. Outside the court, the victims led by John Ngugi who lost his wife in the tragedy blamed the DPP for collapse of the case.