Harambee Starlets have reported at the Utalii for a residential training ahead of the Turkish Women Cup set for March 2-11. Starlets landed an invite for the tournament and will use it as a build-up for the 2020 Africa Women’s Cup of Nations (AWCON) qualifiers scheduled for between April and June. Coach David Ouma had initially summoned 25 players but will miss the services of Elizabeth Katungwa, who withdrew from the squad citing personal reasons. Vihiga Queens' Cynthia Shilwatso was expected late last evening. However, sources within Football Kenya Federation hinted that the Mombasa Olympics player is set to leave for a professional stint in Sweden. Ouma will seek to axe three players from the provisional squad before leaving for Turkey on March 2. Ouma, who overlooked foreign-based players, will be relieved that experienced players who ply their trade locally reported to camp on time. Among the senior players the former Sofapaka head coach called up are Mwanahalima Adam, Dorcas Sikobe, Janet Bundi and Shilwatso who were all part of the team which played in the 2018 Awcon finals in Ghana. Debutante Jane Njeri of Falling Waters also reported to camp and so is returnee Rachael Muema of Thika Queens. Other countries who will participate in the Turkish Women tournament include Hungary, Venezuela, Hong Kong, Romania, Uzbekistan, Northern Ireland, Turkmenistan and Chile. A friendly match against the National U-16 Boys team has been lined up this Friday. Ouma will be fine-tuning the girls at Camp Toyoyo. Provisional Squad Goalkeepers: Stella Anolo (Zetech Sparks), Judith Osimbo (Gaspo Youth), Monica Odato (Wadadia), Phiona Ariko (Thika Queens); Defenders: Vivian Nasaka (Vihiga Queens), Cynthia Livondo (Trans Nzoia Falcons), Dorcas Shiveka (Eldoret Falcons), Nelly Sawe (Thika Queens), Dorcas Shikobe (Oserian), Lucy Akoth (Mathare United), Diana Hashina (Acakoro), Lydia Akoth (Thika Queens); Midfielders: Cynthia Shilwatso (Vihiga Queens), Cynthia Kaveya (Thika Queens), Sheryl Angach (Gaspo), Silvia Makhungu (Kariobangi North), Mercy Airo (Kisumu All Starlets), Janet Bundi (Eldoret Falcons), Elizabeth Katungwa (Mombasa Olympics), Jane Njeri (Falling Waters), Jentrix Shikangwa (Wiyeta Girls), Rachael Muema (Thika Queens); Forwards: Mwanalima Adam (Thika Queens), Stella Anyango (Nakuru All Stars), Purity Alukwe (Zetech Sparks).