Jaramogi Oginga Odinga University of Science and Technology (JOOUST) dominated the 32nd edition of the Ochieng Okumu Open tournament in Bondo, Siaya County. JOOUST won men's soccer, volleyball and handball  titles during the two-day tournament. In men's soccer, JOOUST needed penalties to beat Majengo Secondary School 5-3 on post-match penalties. In the girls' category, Sega upset former East Africa champions Jera  3-2 in a dramatic penalty shoot out to win the title. In the semis, Jera edged Nyamira 2-0 while Sega narrowly overcame Nyamonye 2-1 in a pulsating semifinal. In men’s volleyball, JOOSUT were too strong for Got Agulu Secondary beating them in straight sets while in the girls' category, Butere Girls saw off Barchando 3-1. Both handball titles went to JOOUST. In the men’s category, JOOUST defeated Got Agulu Boys 14-12 while in the girls category saw JOOUST beat Lwak Girls 21-9. Lakers Club beat Nyanza region hockey champions Nyamira Girls 3-1 to win the title with Wakongwe beating Chianda Boys 3-2 in the boys' category. Former national champions Obambo upset JOOUST 30-10 to win the netball title. Maranda High School clinched the boys' basketball title after garnering 10 points while Ng'iya Girls lifted the girls' title. At the same time, national Secondary Schools basketball runners up Sigalame from Samia in Busia County asserted their  supremacy,  lifting  the Allan Bradley Open tournament that ended on Sunday  at Friends School Kamusinga in Bungoma County. The tournament is in preparation for the 2020 edition of theTerm One  'A' games.  The high riding Siga, as the team is popularly known, were declared champions after beating hosts Kamusinga 23-18 in the finals. Having missed out of  the nationals in 2017 for allegedly  fielding an ineligible player, Sigalame bounced back stronger last year in the Western region school games,  defeating Chavakali in final to book a place for nationals. The little known western champions went all the way to the final but lost to  seven-times national champions Laiser Hill 48-65 with both teams represented Kenya in the East African games in Rwanda. Siga ended the Kamusinga tournament without a loss. They beat Paul Boit 39-2, Kamusinga 18-10, Sang'alo Institute 25-4 and  Tambach 23-16 in the preliminary rounds. They went ahead to beat Naitiri 40-6 in the quarter-finals.