A few minutes past 8am on Tuesday, a small black hearse heavily guarded by military officers and police outriders left Lee Funeral Home for State House. The casket bearing the body of retired President Daniel arap Moi was draped in the national flag. The officers on big white motorbikes strategically rode on all sides of the hearse, one ahead and two on each side as they began the procession to Nyayo Stadium for the funeral service. Through Valley Road, the convoy exited at Processional Way before getting to State House where the General Service Unit (GSU) police lined up on each side of the driveway from the house to Gate A to pay their respect to the late president. President Uhuru Kenyatta then got out to receive Moi’s body as the three formations of the military led in singing the national anthem as they saluted. Their military leaders matched slowly into State House where two bishops and a muslim cleric were waiting to say a prayer for the former president. The team stood around the casket and after the prayer, President Kenyatta paid his respects before the team matched out with the body. Uhuru then shook hands with the family before the casket was loaded back onto a gun carriage that was waiting outside. On departure from State House, the casket was borne on the green carriage flying both a miniature national flag and Moi’s presidential standard with military formations following on foot. The military blew trumpets, a tradition referred to as the Last Post which traces its origin from the British army in the 17th century. It later spread across militaries in the Commonwealth. Through Kenyatta Avenue, the procession proceeded to Uhuru Highway and entered Nyayo stadium from Bunyala road roundabout. Traffic policemen  directed the procession. After the interdenominational funeral service led by AIC church at the stadium, the body was returned to Lee Funeral Home. It will be ferried to Kabarak on Wednesday for burial. Moi will be accorded a 19-gun salute. Edited by R.Wamochie