"No mother should bury her child, it is heart-wrecking; but it is worse when he is murdered in cold blood." These were the words of Sarah Wangari whose son was shot dead by a police officer. Sarah paused, wiped the tears gushing out of her eyes using a dark handkerchief she held tightly in his hands. "You don’t become a widow, not an orphan, there is no name for that kind of pain. I was Mama Daddy, but now, I am just Sarah Wangari." She buried her face in the handkerchief, this time letting herself sob painfully. He was christened Daniel Mburu, but his mother called him Daddy, and the name stuck. On Tuesday, he was fatally shot by police inside Mama Lucy Hospital, where he had taken a neighbour’s child. Mburu, a 24-year-old bodaboda rider, stayed close to his mother in Korogocho. He was at work as usual when he received news that a neighbour whose child had nearly drowned in a nearby river needed to be rushed to a hospital. He offered to take the child to Mama Lucy Kibaki and asked a friend to inform his mother of his whereabouts. “He came to say goodbye but missed me. I last saw him on Sunday. He was full of life and asked for tea, which he left with,” Sarah said. Kennedy Kimani, who had accompanied Mburu to the hospital and witnessed the events, said he had left his motorcycle at the gate as he hurriedly assisted in carrying the child to the emergency section. "They were told to give room to allow the doctor to attend to the child. As he was leaving, he saw Mburu heading to get his motorcycle. Shortly, he heard a commotion and saw a police officer slap him. "I moved closer wondering what was happening. The officer was asking him why he parked it right at the gate" Kimani narrated. Another friend rushed to save Mburu, but he was also clobbered by the police. The two were handcuffed together and taken to a sentry, leaving people protesting against the police. "The officer cocked his gun and the crowd stayed away. He left with the two and in less than five minutes, we heard a gunshot," Kimani recounted. He said people rushed to the sentry to see what was happening. Mburu had been shot in the chest. "I saw four security guards drag him towards the emergency section. By then, a huge number of people were shouting in protest," he said. The mother said when she returned from a shop, she heard bodaboda coming back hooting and screaming. "I thought the child had not made it. I remember thinking to myself how sad his mother was," she said. Wangari said that in the melee, a friend approached her and asked that they join the team at Mama Lucy. "I hopped onto a motorcycle and we took off. All this while, not aware that it was in fact my child who everyone was saying did not deserve to die,” she said tearfully. At the hospital, Mburu’s friend told her that her only child had been shot by police. “I rushed in and found doctors had surrounded him. I was asked to wait as they tried to save him but shortly after, he was dead. I saw his blood at the sentry where he was shot and lost consciousness. What has become of this country?” she asked. The crowd that had witnessed the killing held a protest at the hospital demanding justice for her son. Kimani and Derick Wainaina were arrested during the protest and their motorcycle impounded. Kimani said he had been arrested as he rushed to pick his motorcycle to accompany the body to City Mortuary. "Just when I was going to pick my motorcycle, an officer threw teargas and in the chaos, I fell," Kimani said. The guy who was arrested with Mburu was released but warned not to say anything.  "The police threatened him and said, 'I've let you live. From here, you don't know me and I [don't know] you. Say anything at your own risk,'" Wainaina said. Lawyer Kariuki Karanja, who is representing the victims, said the two men spent the night at Kayole police station. They were not produced in court yesterday morning as required by law and were instead transferred to Soweto, a lower police station. They were released at around 2pm yesterday on condition that they will be reporting to the station whenever required to help with the investigations. The police were preparing to charge them with incitement to violence. The OCPD for Kayole police station, Wilson Kosgei, said the officer had not been arrested but added that they had disarmed him. He said the officer, whom he declined to identify, also recorded a statement at the station. Mr Kosgei said the officer is not under arrest. He added that they have three stations for forensics — the station, hospital and DCIO office. The officer is still under investigation on the shooting. Kosgei said the officer will be charged once they have enough evidence. He termed the incident unfortunate, especially given that it happened at a hospital — a place deemed safe. The Bodaboda Association of Kenya will hold demonstrations on Monday next week if justice is not accorded to Mburu's family. Secretary general Kenneth Onyango said the countywide demos will be peaceful and orderly to pressure the authorities to act fast. “If these investigations are not completed in the shortest time possible, Article 37 of the Constitution gives us the right to demonstrate and present our petitions. By Monday, I assure you, we will come out in very large numbers and present our petition to the right authorities," Onyango said.