President Uhuru Kenyatta has promised to improve the welfare, terms and conditions of service for police officers. Uhuru on Sunday said his administration remains focused to ensure the welfare of the uniformed men and women is prioritised. He said, as a result, more investment will be channeled to police welfare this year to enable them to perform better. Uhuru was speaking during the official opening of the Ruiru General Service Unit Chapel in Kiambu County. He said his administration will continue to provide material support to enable the police to perform their duties efficiently. “There are a number of things that we are considering so that you will know that we recognize the work that you do is different from ordinary work,” he said. The Head of state said the chapel will go a long way in providing spiritual nourishment for the officers and their families at the Ruiru GSU camp. “Building this chapel is a great achievement. It is also honour in recognizing that there is one who is greater than all of us, who protects us as we carry out our duties and serve our nation,” he said. Last year the National Police Service Commission said it would need at least Sh15 billion to implement its four-year strategic plan. "The total projected cost of this strategic plan 2019-22 is estimated to be Sh15.57 billion for three financial year period," part of the plan said. The NPSC has listed de-linking and taking over of the National Police Service civilian, excluding public finance management staff from public service commission to the NPSC as its flagship project. Other flagship projects include harmonisation of terms and conditions of civilian staff, decentralisation of commission's human capital management services to regions among others. The NPSC needs Sh2 billion for police welfare, terms and condition and professional development. This means it will need over Sh 800 million for the three fiscal year period. Further, the NPSC will need Sh50 million each of the three fiscal years to organise a briefing for recruitment teams and experts or consultants, with the time frame being every July. Speaking during the occasion, Interior CS Fred Matiangi thanked President Kenyatta for his commitment to the improvement of the country’s security sector. “I am aware of the resources you have spent in addressing the spiritual needs of our officers and our people within the framework of the security sector,” he said. Matiang'i assured the President that the Police Service will in turn not let him down in its service to Kenyans. “Let me also thank you for the wonderful example you have given us. As our leader, you have not just led but you have also been a very good example for us to emulate. We thank you and pray the Lord to strengthen your hands for the good work ahead as we move our country to the next level,”  Matiang’i said. In 2018 while making a similar pledge, President Uhuru said he would commission a police hospital that will deal with the unique circumstances of their line of duty. "I will soon commission a police hospital and come up with a robust medical insurance that will cover you and your families," he said.