The High Court on Thursday will rule on Tuesday whether to reduce or cancel Sh10 million bill for MP Babu Owino who is charged with the attempted murder of a DJ. On February 13, the prosecution urged Justice Luka Kimaru to cancel Babu’s bail, as the charge was grave. Babu was charged with the attempted murder of Felix Odhiambo, popularly known as DJ Evolve, at B-Club in Kilimani, Nairobi, on January 17. He also faced charges of disorderly conduct while carrying a firearm. He pleaded not guilty. Odhiambo was shot in the neck and paralysed from the neck down, however, he has regained some movement after spinal surgery at Nairobi The DPP wants the Embakasi East lawmaker remanded in custody pending the outcome of his trial. Appearing before Justice Kimaru, the prosecution said there was a serious error of law in the decision of a lower court to release Babu on bail. In January, Milimani chief magistrate Francis Andayi directed Babu to deposit Sh2.5 million to secure his release and pay the remaining cash in four equal instalments within three months. As a condition, he was warned against drinking or using drugs. The court also considered that the victim's family was incapable of settling his medical bill. Hence, the bail money would be paid to the hospital for the bill. The prosecution remains opposed to the MP's release. "The learned magistrate was to deny the accused person bond as the prosecution had given compelling reasons… he never considered the Victim Protection Act and had he done so, he would have refused the bail," it said. Babu said that he had voluntarily started to help pay the victim's medical expenses and pledged to continue doing so. However, he did not intend these payments to be an admission of guilt "as the court seems to have depicted and thus the same should not be used to render high or punitive bail terms," he said through his lawyer. In a separate application, Babu sought an order barring the DPP from commenting on his case. It was denied. (Edited by V. Graham) 