National assembly majority leader and Garissa township MP Aden Duale on Sunday made good his threats to boycott the Garissa BBI popularization rally. He instead took it to his Facebook page to dismiss the rally saying that it is sad that the process has now been hijacked by the political class which is creating a lot of confusion, disunity, ethnic profiling. “The BBI as initiated by President Uhuru Kenyatta was an all-inclusive process with the sole purpose of unifying our people, building a cohesive prosperous nation, eliminate the cancer of corruption, address historical injustices, introduce an all-inclusive accountable governance structure and create a national ethos and that is to be the single most important legacy of President Kenyatta. As one of the leaders of Jubilee, I support the president's initiative,” read part of his post. He added, “As a representative of the people I support BBI Bomas report fully with little validation on the chapter on representation and specifically on resource allocation formula for county governments. We will agree in as leaders how to strike a balance between population and land mass as formula for resources allocation and delimitation of electoral units as we did in 2010 constitution (article 89) making process and the pastorals leadership will make a case for it when we appear before BBI validation forum on Tuesday next week.” "As we embark on this important BBI national validation forums, we as leaders, state and public officers must deliver services to the people as a part of our mandate in areas of water, security, Education, infrastructure, Health, paying pending bills and not use BBI as a reason to a run away from accountability and service delivery,' he continued. Duale said that as the Leader of Majority of the Jubilee Party who introduces Government agenda into the house, he will attend the BBI rallies "if President Uhuru and DP Ruto attend who also double up as our party leaders and will at all times avoid divisive and chaotic rallies with messages of hate, insults, political competition which are of no value to ordinary citizens but will present the views of my people to the legally recognized BBI validation forum as per presidential gazette notice 264 of 3/1/2020, and make my contribution eventually when the process comes to parliament and the people in accordance with articles 256/257 of the constitution." “Currently my tray is full with Parliament budgetary process. The people of North Eastern are facing a lot of problems from insecurity, schools being closed down to census issues which the highest level of Government is addressing. These are my primary priorities for now and since BBI is at its conception stage, we shall guide together with that of our Kenyans in mind the historical and future interest of our communities and region." The Garissa rally however went on well despite earlier fears that youth had been hired to disrupt. Security was tight in and around the venue.