Tusker head coach Robert Matano has tipped the club’s budding striker Henry Meja to thrive in the next three years he will be at Ruaraka. The 18-year-old made his debut last weekend in their 1-0 win over former champions AFC Leopards at the Afraha Stadium, coming in the second half in place of Brian Marita. Tusker surprisingly went for the signature of the rookie during the January transfer window but Matano believes he has the capacity to transition to a dreaded forward despite his age and lack of KPL experience. Meja, who by joining Tusker reunited with his elder brother and the club’s left back Sammy Meja, impressed during the the Cleophas Malala tournament in Kakamega last year. During the Cleophas Malala tourney , he emerged as the top scorer with 11 goals and was consequently named the Most Valuable Player (MVP). Matano revealed that Meja’s prowess in front of the goal caught his eye while he was a Form One student at Kakamega High School. "I have kept a close eye on his progress and at some point he plied his trade in the National Super League with Green Commandos," he added. “I first saw the boy while he was in  Form One while I was tutoring Leopards and even at Tusker. I have been monitoring him for years and when time was ripe, we signed him. He is talented and has the qualities of a lethal finisher,” observed the former Leopards coach. Meanwhile, Matano insists that the KPL race is far from over and has demanded that his players to put their best feet forward. Tusker trail league leaders Gor Mahia by three points and Matano reckons that the one match at a time approach will yield their 13th league title. Tusker were the only title chasing team that reaped maximum results last weekend “We will keep on pushing till the final match. Every other team is keen to win the title just like us but I want my players to focus on our matches and take one game at a time. I am aware that our challengers dropped points but I am not focusing on how other teams are faring in the league," he added.