Residents of Mt Elgon constituency have condemned the rise in donkey theft in the region. They blamed the government for allowing the commissioning of a slaughterhouse in the country, saying that has led to a high demand, which prompts some people to steal their animals to make quick cash. More than 100 residents fr0m the five wards in the Bungoma county constituency marched to county Agriculture executive and county commissioner's offices to present a petition demanding action against culprits. Rodgers Mutibu from Kaboywa village in Kaptama ward said most of their donkeys have been stolen and sold in other parts of the country. He asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to revoke the licence allowing the slaughter of donkeys. "Our area here in Mt Elgon is very hilly and we depend on this animals to carry water from rivers, and farm produce to markets like Kimilili and Chwele that assist us to make a living and get fee for our schoolchildren, but the rate at which our donkeys are being stolen and killed is alarming," he said. They accused some brokers among them for stealing donkeys and taking them to Turkana, Lodwar, Mogotio, Naivasha and Ukambani where the demand for their meat and hides is high. "You know to us it's very strange and funny since we, people of Mt Elgon, since time immemorial used donkeys as a means of transport and would never imagine eating a donkey. In fact, if a donkey died, it would be buried decently with some cash for helping our women and the community," Mutibu said. Bungoma Livestock chief officer Isaack Arbut promised the protesters that their grievances would be looked at keenly and addressed by relevant authorities. "We never ate donkey in the past and now people have been made to believe that donkey meat is a medicine that helps in healing pressure, cancer and other funny things," he said. He said that security falls under the national government but promised to follow up with the county commissioner to ensure police beef up patrols to prevent theft. Arbut noted that the county is in the process of generating a policy that will handle the welfare of a donkey to ensure a donkey is well taken care of in terms of treatment food and amount of luggage to carry. "We want donkeys to be respected since they are animals that even carried Jesus. We want our MCAs to pass a law that if you mistreat a donkey, you are fined" he said. The County Executive Committee member promised to build sheds and places where donkey can eat grass and drink water in markets after delivering luggage.