Two phone numbers alleged to have been used during the murder of International Justice Mission lawyer Willie Kimani were registered hours before he was killed. Vincent Mabu, a security expert from Airtel Kenya, yesterday told court that after retrieving data from their system, he found two numbers had been registered at 6pm on June 22, 2016. Willie Kimani, his client Josephat Mwenda and taxi driver Joseph Muiruri were killed on June 23. They were abducted after leaving court. Their bodies were later found in Ol Donyo Sabuk River. AP officers Fredrick Leliman, Stephen Cheburet, Sylvia Wanjiku and Leonard Mwangi, and police informer Peter Ngugi were charged with the murder. Mabu told Justice Jessie Lessit that he received a letter from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to generate information from four numbers and incoming and outgoing calls for the numbers. The four numbers were 0780307473 for Elid Sang, 0786526465 for Robert Kisala, 0731448728 for Winston Wafukho and 0732528782 for Benjamin Ndung’u. However, from the data retrieved at 6pm on June 22, 2016, Kisala’s number changed ownership and was registered under Moses Kariithi. Last year, Kariithi, a witness in the case, told the court that his identity card had been stolen in January 2016 and he was called by the police to shed light on how his phone was used to commit murder. He told the police it was not his phone and showed the abstract he got after reporting the loss of his card to Syokimau police. Mabu further said that at 6.09pm the same day — nine minutes after the other phone was registered — Sang’s number was changed and registered to Charles Nyaberi. The court heard that the retailers who registered the lines were in the same area, but Mabu said current records do not indicate the exact location where the line ownership was changed. Mabu said he generated subscriber details, call data and history of the numbers but never analysed the data that he gave to the police. "I was not required to analyse the data. I produced it as it is in its raw format to the police," he said. Airtel shares some telecommunication masts with its market rival Safaricom, especially in remote areas where it may be costly to put up one, he added. The case resumes today morning.