The Teachers Service Commission has been temporarily stopped from transferring non-local teachers from Garissa, Mandera and Wajir over insecurity. High Court judge Hellen Wasilwa directed TSC to put the transfers on hold until March 12 when the matter will be heard. The move gives hope to residents of the three counties who have complained about the mass transfer of teachers from the region which has disrupted learning. Hussein Yarrow had challenged the transfer on grounds that it is discriminatory as it infringes on the right of education of children from the Northeastern region. “The mass exodus and transfers of non-local teachers by the respondent militate against the best interest of the children in the three affected counties. It impacts detrimentally on the welfare of those children as the lack of education exposes them to vices and makes them vulnerable,” Yarrow said. According to Yarrow, the order is blanket and affects even areas or subcounties which have never experienced terrorism. He sued the Teachers Service Commission and its chief executive officer. The Ministry of Interior has been listed as an interested party to the matter. Yarrow said that the transferring agencies needs to consider and prioritise the best interest of children in dealing with the matter yet they have failed to do so. He said the TSC incited non-local teachers in the three counties to leave the region following a terror attack in Garissa on January 13  which left three dead. The court heard that TSC transferred en mass over 1300 non-local teachers in Garissa and over 1,600 in both Wajir and Mandera counties. County commissioners from the three counties have termed the mass transfer as unnecessary as the insecurity is exaggerated. For instance, Mandera county commissioner Onesmus Kyatha was quoted in the media on February 6 saying the security in the county is stable. And while addressing locals in Garissa during a BBI rally, ODM leader Raila Odinga said that President Uhuru Kenyatta was going to address the issue of transfer of non-local teachers. TSC has been given seven days to file its response. 