Just before 12.30pm on Monday, an emergency call was made from the North Wing ward to the ICU of the Nairobi Hospital. The call alerted the ward to prepare to receive a VIP. As it was visiting hour, the nurses cleared the way and seconds later, former President Daniel Moi was wheeled into the unit. A team of doctors, Kenyan and foreign, nurses and his security detail cleared the short corridor. The North Wing housing VIP patients is just a stone's throw from the Intensive Care Unit, which has some of the best trained, fast-reacting nurses in the hospital. Mzee Moi was wheeled straight to a special room within ICU where his doctors and nurses swung into action, trying to manage him and save his life. Moi’s conditioned had gradually gotten worse since Sunday evening and on Monday morning, he is reported to have fallen into a coma. And on Tuesday at about 5.20am, the long-serving former President breathed his last and was pronounced dead. He was age 95. “He passed away peacefully. I was by his side and as a family, we have accepted," Baringo Senator Gideon Moi said at the Nairobi Hospital on Tuesday. His body was received at the Lee Funeral Home shortly after 8am. President Uhuru Kenyatta who is away in the US issued a presidential proclamation announcing the passing on of Kenya's second President. For the first time on Tuesday, Moi's long-serving press secretary Lee Njiru narrated how the last years have been difficult for Moi family and his close associates. Njiru said Moi's deteriorating health, which he attributed to old age, required him to begin using a walking stick before he was confined to a wheelchair. He disclosed that Moi had been in hospital for a record four months without being discharged. "For the last three years, I have seen a decline in his health. As he was an important person, we don't disclose this. He was hospitalised in October last year and never left the hospital. The hospital was like a nursing home, not a hospital,” Njiru said during an interview with Citizen TV on Tuesday morning. His son and Rongai MP Raymond Moi accompanied by other family members and his younger brother Gideon told the nation that Moi had received the best possible medical care. Raymond disclosed that a team of doctors who attended to their father at Nairobi Hospital included specialists from overseas. "It's approximately three months since Mzee was hospitalised for a medical condition, which was diagnosed and treated to the best ability of Nairobi Hospital, by our local doctors and others who came from overseas," he said at Moi's Kabarnet Gardens home in Nairobi. He went on, "We are aware the best in medical science and clinical medicine was deployed to try and save Mzee’s life. But our Creator had decided that his time had come. Now that this time has arrived, contrary to our expectations, it is our prayer that God gives us the energy to brave the troubled waters until Mzee is laid to rest." Moi who turned 95 in September had spent almost five months in hospital where doctors were managing ailments resulting in multiple organ failure. His heart had slowed down to “dangerous levels, lungs had also been slowed, hence, affecting his breathing and about a month ago, his kidneys developed problems forcing the doctors to put him on dialysis." Moi was first admitted to the hospital on October 10 last year for what was then referred to as a “normal check-up”. It was later revealed that he was treated for a combination of chest pains and pneumonia, which weeks later mutated to pleural effusion, a medical condition in which excess fluids accumulate around the lungs. Since October, Moi has been to the facility on and off as doctors were managing his condition. He never left the hospital since November 11. The former President's medical team, led by his personal physician David Silverstein, was said to have been managing recurring chest complications that affected Moi's breathing. While Moi had a fairly good health record during his 24-years in power, he was involved in a car accident in Limuru in 2006. He was treated and discharged but sustained a knee injury that was causing persistent pain. In March 2018, Moi was flown to Israel for treatment of "an uncomfortable knee". On January 27, 2017, he underwent minor knee surgery at the Aga Khan University Hospital in Nairobi. Moi took over as Kenya's second president following the death of founding President Jomo Kenyatta in August 1978. He joined active politics in 1955 when he was elected to the colonial Legislative Council, famously known as Legco, to represent Rift Valley region.