Mandera county will Thursday host a one-day conference to look for solutions to the teacher shortage. The forum will be led by Governor Ali Roba and which will be attended by politicians, educationists and clerics, among other leaders. About 3,000 non-local primary and secondary school teachers have been transferred, resulting in a crisis. They feared for their lives following militant attacks that have on separate occasions targeted non-natives and left many of them dead and others injured. Three non-local teachers died in the Kamuthe Primary School attack in Garissa by al Shabaab militants. Letters seen by the Star showed that the Education CS, Prof George Magoha, will deliver a keynote address at the Mandera conference, which will be the first of its kind in the region. Neighbouring counties of Wajir and Garissa will host theirs later. Also expected at the event are Teachers Service Commission CEO Nancy Macharia and chairperson Lydia Nzomo, as well as Kenya National Union of Teachers secretary general Wilson Sossion. Speaking to the press in Mandera town on Wednesday, Roba said they will root for homegrown solutions to fix the crisis. “We’ve decided to engage in a multi-stakeholder dialogue to help us find workable solutions. We don’t want blame games as our innocent children suffer. The time to act is now,” he said. “Basic and secondary education is a function of the national government, but we cannot sit back and fold our hands. We are looking at recruiting untrained teachers, seconding county staff with education training to support teaching and merging of schools.” The region has appealed to the national government to ensure learning continues without disruption. On Saturday, Northeastern leaders hit out at TSC boss Macharia over her move to remove non-Somali teachers from the region. They spoke at a Nairobi hotel during a luncheon hosted to celebrate the elevation of Ukur Yattani from Labour CS to Treasury CS Led by Garissa Senator Yussuf Haji, they said they were angry at the unilateral withdrawal of teachers on grounds of terror attacks targeting teachers. The leaders appealed to Interior CS Fred Matiang’i to convene a joint meeting to seek solutions. Issues of insecurity and education concerns are expected future prominently in the BBI rally slated for this weekend in Garissa town.