Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has said that he is free to run for president just like his Ukambani counterpart and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka. Mutua said his quest cannot be stopped by anybody and asked the community to support him in 2022. He said that despite the truce with Kalonzo, there was no obligation for any one of them to shelve his ambitions. The two leaders met last week and publicly declared an end to their political differences, promising to work together for the benefit of their community. Mutua spoke in his office Tuesday after he hosted governors Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni) and Charity Ngilu (Kitui). He said he had asked Kalonzo to support him to achieve his dream just as the Wiper leader too had requested him before. The governor asked other leaders to put aside bad politics and work together for the benefit of their people. “Kenyans are more important than anyone’s pride. Let’s put aside politics and work together to bring development to our people,” he said. Mutua said that Kalonzo, Kivutha and he will sit down and ask their community to select among them the most preferred leader to carry their flag. “We will decide who is worthy and can represent us all and can be elected countrywide,” he said. Ngilu said nobody should be stopped from running for the presidency. She said Kenyans had a right to choose their leaders freely without community loyalty. “The best thing to do is to focus as a community and pull ourselves together and support the people who can work together so that the leadership can consider us as a part of the government,” Ngilu said. Ngilu said that leadership was about anyone who can deliver to the electorate. “I encourage anybody who sees it fit to run for presidency to do so freely. Let’s not try to sabotage anyone’s dream by fighting him. We should support them,” Ngilu said. Kivutha said elections were all about democracy and anyone can ask for any political seat in the country. He said leaders should be prepared for ideological politics and stop fighting each other. “The fact that so many people are asking for the presidency and others may emerge does not mean that we will not focus on the critical things which are important to our people,” he said. He said that they will support any leader from Ukambani who will acquire more following across the country. “Whoever wins a national following will be supported although I kind of know some people who may not get any support not only in our region but in others too,” Kivutha said. (edited by O. Owino)