The greatest threat to the development and survival of the Mt Kenya region is disunity among its leaders, Nyeri Senator Ephraim Maina has said. Maina called on leaders to put aside their personal and political differences and speak in one voice on issues affecting residents. He said their disunity is weakening the region when they should be using its strength to push for the interest of the people. "I want to give assurance that I am personally committed to having the leaders of this region put aside any personal or political difference and come together as one people for the unity of the region and the country," he said. Maina spoke on Saturday in Karatina own during a meeting with traders operating along the Nairobi-Nanyuki Railway line. He appealed to his fellow leaders to pursue initiatives that improve lives in line with the core vision of President Uhuru Kenyatta. The president has been emphasising that every leader focuses on the welfare of wananchi, he said. Maina cited the problems bedevilling coffee, tea and dairy farmers and education as some of the issues that must be prioritised and tackled swiftly. Farmers have been complaining about low prices for their harvests and declining education standards, especially in Nyeri. The senator said the region’s destiny is at stake, hence the need for a turnaround of the current situation. "We have no option. If we want to survive as a strong and united people, we must come together irrespective of our differences, be it political or personal," he said. The traders agreed to abide by the government’s directive to move about 10 metres away from the railway to make room for its rehabilitation. "I'm glad the traders are very happy with that decision and have decided to abide by it so the railway line can be rebuilt," Maina said. "We all appreciate the economic benefits of the Railway line and we have agreed to support the project in every way needed." Kenya Railways Corporation had ordered encroachers out of the railway reserve to allow it to rehabilitate the line so it can resume services. The repair is expected to be a game-changer in the agricultural sector. (Edited by F'Orieny)