Kiambu Governor James Nyoro on Wednesday nominated as his deputy governor Joyce Ngugi, a longstanding rival of Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria. Insiders say the nomination, if approved, would be a way of watering down Kuria's political influence and encouraging him to watch his tongue. It might even cost him his seat in 2022. The outspoken and at times offensive Kuria has become a thorn in the flesh of late, especially because of his close allegiance to Deputy President William Ruto and his Tangatanga allies. Ruto is facing an arms scam linked to his office and he and President Uhuru Kenyatta, while cordial in public, are not on the best of terms, to put it mildly. Ngugi is the chairperson of the National Council of Children Services. She is the widow of former MP Joseph Ngugi who collapsed at his Runda home in May 2014. Nyoro was sworn in as Kiambu county boss on January 31, taking over from his impeached predecessor Ferdinand Waititu. Waititu had sought court orders to bar Nyoro from nominating his deputy, but his application was dismissed by High Court judge James Makau. The jurist said the appointment was not a single act but a process. Besides Ngugi, suggestions for deputy governor had included Annah Nyokabi, a former Kiambu Woman Representative and President Kenyatta's cousin; and former county Rads CEC John Mugwe. In 2014, Ngugi was among the TNA candidates who sought the party nomination to take over from her late husband. She confronted Kuria in the Gatundu South parliamentary by-election. Kuria got 8,343 votes, Ngugi came second with 6,685, not bad for a novice. She and John Karing’u, who came a distant fourth, unsuccessfully backed Kiarie Kamere against Kuria. If Ngugi is vetted and approved by the Kiambu assembly, she will become second-in-command. If she chooses to run for Gatundu South MP in 2022, her chances could be quite good. Kuria has been at cross purposes not only with other politicians from the region bt also with President Kenyatta, his party leader. Last year, the vocal legislator accused the President of using his home county as a "voting machine". “We can no longer accept to be treated the way we are being treated. When the President goes to other places, he launches development projects but here in our county, he only gives certificates to [rehabilitated] alcoholics,” Kuria said. He referred to a function in which President Kenyatta awarded certificates to supposedly reformed alcoholics in controversial 'rehabilitation' by Governor Waititu. In January 2019, Kuria apologised to the President for saying he ignored the county and Mt. Kenya region in terms of development and preferred to reward alcoholics. Kuria had said the President launched major road construction in Nyanza but hadn't launched a big project in Kiambu. "Munene atige gutukuwa wana" ("The President should stop taking us for granted,") he told a cheering crowd. The MP has said he will lead negotiations for counties to get Treasury allocations based on their population, nothing that Kiambo got Sh8 billion while Turkana got Sh12 billion. "We cannot go on like that," the MP said. Recently, while announcing support for DP Ruto, Kuria hit back at the President for resolving to work with the opposition — a reference to the handshake with ODM leader Raila Odinga. While demanding respect from Raila, Kuria said leaders from Central region were “being humiliated by this ‘wife’ [Rala] you brought into this home”. He referred to Raila as President Kenyatta's "second wife". "We were in Mombasa and my seat was snatched away from me because I refused to stand for this ‘wife’ you brought home. We do not have a problem with them because if a home has two wives, we as children can only accept and because we accepted this ‘wife’ to come home, why don’t you tell them to respect us too and stop despising us," Kuria said. Perhaps a more subdued Kuria would be welcome and Ngugi might encourage him to measure his words. (Edited by V. Graham)