 City Hall has committed Sh8 million to settle the salaries arrears owed to nurses at the Pumwani Maternity Hospital who have not been paid since November last year. The announcement that the county was ready to pay the salaries was made on Monday following a protest by the nurses. The nurses took to the streets to demonstrate against City Hall's failure to pay the salaries. Economic planning chief officer Washington Makodingo said the county will ensure the 67 nurses get paid before the week ends. "We have made a request to the controller of budget to release at least Sh8 million and as soon as they grant us the money, we will pay the salaries even if it is today," Makodingo said on Monday. One of the nurses told the Star they had been intimidated and even threatened by the management of the hospital. "As planned, we wanted to demonstrate early this month but we received threats of being fired," the nurse said. In a letter dated February 20, Pumwani's deputy chief nursing officer wrote to City Hall reminding the executive of the workers' unpaid salaries. "It is now almost a month past the stipulated time, nothing is forthcoming and there is no sign of goodwill from the concerned offices. We hereby give notice that we shall stop offering our services from tomorrow Friday 21, 2020 at 4 pm pending payment of full arrears," the letter reads. The letter was addressed to the medical superintendent at Pumwani Maternity Hospital and the facility's secretary. The nurses said a series of meetings with the hospital's administration had borne no fruit. They cited a previous in which they had been promised payment in two weeks. On January 31, health chief officer Mohamed Sahal asked the medical superintendent at Pumwani to extend the contract of 285 staff for a month. The workers included nine laboratory assistants, doctors (10), clinicians at the New Born Unit (3), clinicians at the Outpatient Department (67), nurses (91) and casual labourers (105). "In line with a memo from the controller of budget dated January 22, 2020 the sector is required to process the salary of staff outside the IPPD System within the law," the letter says. "All requests for the employment of casual labourers must be approved by the County Public Service Board." The nurses said they took to protests after other avenues to demand their salaries failed. Makodingo said Pumwani funds are facilitated by the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) given it is a free maternity hospital. "Services at Pumwani are free as we all know and because of that, the facility does not have money to pay its staff. They depend on funds from NHIF which has been having some issues for some months now and as a county, we cannot abandon our hospital," Makodingo said. Last month, the county paid Sh6 million for drugs delivered to the hospital.  edited by peter obuya