“A good teacher teaches; a great teacher inspires.” These words inscribed on a plaque presented to Prof Gilbert Ogutu by his students at the Department of Philosophy and Religious Studies at the University of Nairobi are an apt description of him. Prof Ogutu, who passed away at his rural home in Wambasa village (Bondo subcounty) in Siaya on Sunday, spent his entire life teaching and moulding the next generation of Kenyan leaders. He was so passionate about teaching that he opted to continue lecturing even at the ripe age of 78. Even as he waited to transition to university in 1964, Ogutu was already sharing his wealth of knowledge with pupils at Maseno Girls Primary School. That he chose to begin teaching at local primary and secondary schools is testament to  a man determined to impact his local community for the best. His humble beginnings as a teacher also took him to  Osieko, Rabuor and Majengo primary schools as well as Khwisero, Sawagongo, Maranda and Ambira secondary schools, among others. At UoN, his colleagues eulogised him as a mentor who impacted them directly and subtly. “I have only interacted with him for a short time but he came across as a caring and welcoming man. He loved to use the words 'my sweethearts' when addressing us. He was the first to buy me lunch when I arrived here,” one of his colleagues says. An orator per excellence, his speech during the United Nations International Day on Non-Violence on 2 October 2018 during which he referenced Mahatma Gandhi is one that evoked admiration from peers and students to this day. “Various other people have given keynote speeches during the event but none has been talked about as Prof Ogutu's speech on Gandhi,” a lecturer at the Department of Philosophy and Religious Studies recalls. When he was not teaching or giving speeches, Prof Ogutu was busy sharing his knowledge on history and theology through books. One of his notable contributions was the documentation of the history of All Saints Cathedral, Nairobi, in 2017 as the church commemorated a century of existence. It may seem like death has cruelly cut short the tap of knowledge that was Prof Ogutu. On second thought, however, his numerous publications ensure that Prof Ogutu's teaching will continue posthumously for the benefit of present and future generations. Prof Ogutu is survived by a wife, children and grandchildren.