The key suspect in the brutal murder of a 75-year-old German tourist was charged on Tuesday with killing him at his hotel room in Malindi. Mary Kavuu denied wrongdoing before High Court Judge Reuben Nyakundi. She is accused of murdering Herman Detering at Moriema Cottages on the night of January 27-28. Kavuu first admitted to having murdered Detering in self-defence when the charge was read in English but changed her mind after her lawyer, Enrica Ruto, intervened. This prompted the judge to read the charges afresh in Kiswahili so she could understand better. The case was set for trial on March 24. Detering's badly mutilated body was found by workers at the hotel late in the evening after his door remained locked the whole day. The workers said they went to check his room after he failed to come out in the morning, only to notice bloodstain through the window. Moriema Cottages manager Kelly Kazungu said they found the body lying in a pool of blood with severe cuts all over the body. He said the deceased rented the room for two months from December 4 and paid monthly so most of the time used to have his own keys. He said that on a material day Herman drunk with his girlfriend up to 1 am when they retired to bed. Upon returning to the hotel on Tuesday evening, Kazungu was told by employees that Herman had not been seen and his door was locked. "I used a binding wire to peep through the window and saw bloodstains. I went to the police station and reported the matter. I was given police officers who accompanied me to the hotel," he said. He said the German stayed with his girlfriend and at times used to drink a lot, with the girl chewing miraa too, and they never showed any signs of disagreements. When the police arrived at the hotel, they used a spare key and found him lying on the floor. Police officers who sought anonymity said the killer must have used a machete as knives in the room showed no sign of blood. Alphonse Kazungu, a pool attendant at the hotel, said the two lovers were in good mood always and used to drink a lot. Kazungu said the two had never quarrelled. A night guard at the hotel said he did not hear any noise that night and did not see the girl leave the hotel.