The Directorate of Criminal Investigations has began investigations into a Dubai-based Kenyan woman suspected of scamming Kenyans with promises of jobs in the United Arab Emirates. DCI's Serious Crime Unit officers will head to Mombasa to record more statements from people who allege to have been scammed by the Malindi native. Sleuths swung into action after seven of the 16 victims who had arrived from Dubai a fortnight ago recorded statements at the DCI headquarters on Kiambu Road on Saturday. “We are lucky to be back home. We want our government to track down the woman and help us recover our cash,” Amani Hamisi Juma, one of the victims, said. Juma was among four Kenyans who had ditched their jobs in Qatar -  where he was earning approximately Sh40, 000 - for a mouth-watering offer of Sh80,000 in Dubai. He paid Sh200,000 for logistics and agent fees only to end up in one room with 50 other people, including women, and living under squalid conditions. Muslims for Human Rights rapid response officer Francis Auma, who accompanied the victims to DCI headquarters, revealed that 60 other Kenyans are still stuck in Dubai. “They are having only one meal a day of strong tea and chapati. The women have now been forced to engage in prostitution to get some cash,” Auma said. Auma said most rogue recruiters prey on unenlightened people in rural areas by enticing them with gifts and promises of a better life abroad. "These agencies send recruiters down to the villages to convince parents and even give them money and gifts so that they can allow their girls to be taken to the Gulf," Auma said. According to numerous letters of employment seen by the Star, most of the employees are expected to work eight hours per day for six days a week. The accommodation and transportation costs are catered for by the employer. “Leave, salary and gratuity are applicable after completion of a minimum one year of services from the date of joining,”  an employment offer from Dubai-based Star Security Services says. Auma called for expeditious investigations into the racket to ensure quick justice for those affected. "While most legitimate agencies do not charge a fee and even pay for all the repatriation expenses, others charge migrant workers extortionate amounts of money, which run into thousands of dollars. This woman must be brought back to Kenya to face charges against her," Auma said. Many recruiters promise happiness but deliver tears, sweat and pain. On September 18, 2019, Franline Otieno, Kevin Olondi, Stella Cheruto, Joseph Gikonyo, Catherine Ngendo, Habiba Shafi, Aisha Mohamed and Mary Ogola were arrested at Clarion and 680 hotels for allegedly defrauding more than 300 people with promise of jobs in Middle East. The DCI said victims had been conned up to Sh 130,000 each meant to cater for logistics and training. Detectives from Transnational Organized Crime rescued 25 female Burundians and arrested three human traffickers after a raid at a house in Kiambu on March 28, 2019. DCI boss George Kinoti said that the strategic location of the Coast region has made it a hub for human trafficking.