Parents have been advised to be wary of the re-emergence of a criminal gang that has been recruiting learners in primary and secondary schools. Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu said the criminal gang known as Gaza has been recruiting children in Standard 7 and 8 in primary as well as Form 1 and 2 students in secondary schools. These children end up dropping out of school to peddle drugs, engage in petty crimes such as snatching handbags and phones and even attacking people with knives, he said. Wambugu spoke to parents in various schools within his Nyeri Town constituency. “Only a few of those recruited complete their secondary school education. Most of them drop out even before getting to Form 3,” he said. “We have had many incidents of people being attacked with knives by young people.” Wambugu called on parents to monitor their children closely, saying there have been cases of radicalisation in the area. The legislator accused parents of neglecting their responsibilities. If parents and teachers fail to guide learners on morals, the children are left at the mercies of friends with whom they spend most of their time with, Wambugu said. “As parents, you should ensure you know the names of children who relate and play with your children and make follow-ups so that you know their families, how they live and what they do because your child will learn and copy their way of life,” he said. The MP also advised parents to look for at least one teacher to help them monitor the behaviour of their children while in school. Nyeri county commissioner Loyford Kibaara late last month admitted that some schoolchildren were being recruited to terror groups. He said security officials had arrested a good number of suspects, including schoolchildren. Nyeri Central subcounty director of education Paul Mungai said the use of drugs by children may be a catalyst for learners being recruited to devil worshipping and illegal gangs. He said parents should ensure their children are safe while both at school and at home. Education officials have been meeting parents across Nyeri Central subcounties where they have been discussing ways to improve mean grades in schools. Officials have convened over 11 meetings with one such meeting bringing together several public schools from the subcounty. More than 10,000 parents from 63 schools have been reached. The last meeting was held on Friday last week at Rware High School. 