Religious leaders have been urged to provide counselling services to couples with marital disputes as one way of avoiding domestic violence. This came as it emerged that cases of domestic violence were rife, especially among young married couples, with leaders being urged to come to their aid. The call was made by a lobby called Put a Smile to Society Foundation, which visited the home of a domestic violence victim on Kayole estate in Naivasha. The group comprising youths visited 29-year-old Naomi Wambui, a mother of three who was abused and later abandoned by her husband. Wambui narrated her ordeal at the hand of her abusive husband and the difficulties she had to cope with after being abandoned. She now lives with her ageing mother and has been forced to do menial jobs to feed her family. Her two children aged six and five do not go to school as they have to look after their six-month-old sister as their mother goes to work. The foundation, led by its patron Nancy Waithera, said they learnt of the family's tribulations during the Christmas holidays and decided to offer a helping hand. They raised funds that enabled them to buy school uniforms and other materials to make sure the two children are enrolled in school. “We were touched by the plight of the family and what they have undergone and we have decided that this foundation will cater for the fees and other necessities until they complete their studies,” Waithera said. She appealed to couples with marital disputes to seek services of elders and other people so they do not ruin the lives of their children. “You can see whenever there are disputes, children suffer the most like in this case. We call on parents to at least consider innocent children before doing negative acts like violence,” she said. Founder of the organisation Deno Gaucho said they have been helping the elderly but added that the case of the mother touched them. “Our foundation visits the sick and the elderly but we were really touched by the plight of the family and we decided to help. We will provide some cash for her to start an income-generating activity,” she said.