A brand new Toyota V8 worth more than Sh8 million, several heads of cows and camels were among the gifts Bishop Dominic Kimengich was showered with as he was installed as the new bishop of the Catholic Diocese of Eldoret. He succeeded Bishop Cornelius Korir who died two years ago. Kimengich was also made a Kalenjin elder for the diocese that is home to DP William Ruto, who was among the more than 10,000 people who turned up to witness the installation ceremony at St Peter’s seminary. The ceremony was led by the Nairobi archbishop Cardinal John Njue. Thousands of residents and elected leaders turned up at Moi’s Bridge along the border between Uasin Gishu and Trans Nzoia to welcome Kimengich at the event that started on Friday through Saturday. Kimengich had been serving in Lodwar as bishop before he was appointed last November by the pope.  The pope has asked Kimengich to still oversee the church in Turkana until another bishop is appointed. Bishop Maurice Crawley of Kitale has been acting in Eldoret. The Catholic Church has the largest following in the region. During the installation, Kimengich was anointed with special ointment while dressed in traditional regalia in a ceremony conducted by elders where they made him a Kalenjin elder. The elders gave the bishop a traditional three-legged stool and a spear to symbolise power and their blessing. DP Ruto and other leaders present asked the bishop to continue from where his predecessor left in championing development and peace in the region. “We will be relying on you and other church leaders for guidance as we all strive to serve humanity,” the DP said. Turkana Governor Joseph Nanok said, "Korir used development to unify our people and create peace. We are confident that you will do the same considering that you have done a lot back in Turkana." Other leaders present included governors Jackson Mandago of Uasin Gishu, Stephen Sang (Nandi), Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet), Stanley Kiptis (Baringo) and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi. They all pledged to work with and support the bishop in his work. Mandago called on church leaders to pray for the political class saying they are the ones to blame for the bad politics that is threatening to divide Kenyans along ethnic and political lines. “Leaders need prayers for the country to remain more united and stable devoid of division and hatred perpetrated by a section of the political class for their own selfish political gains,” he said. Other leaders present were Uasin Gishu Senator Margaret Kamar, his Nandi counterpart Samson Cherargei, MPs Oscar Sudi (Kapseret), Swarup Mishra (Kesses), William Kisang (Marakwet West), Mohammed Lokiru (Turkana East),  Silas Tiren (Moiben), William Chepkut (Ainabkoi),  Chris Wamalw (Kiminini), Caleb Kositany (Soy), Cornel Serem (Aldai) and former long-serving minister Henry Kosgey. Edited by R.Wamochie