Deputy President William Ruto has wished Jubilee Party secretary general Raphael Tuju a quick recovery. Tuju was on Wednesday admitted to ICU after he was flown to Karen Hospital following an accident. Sources told the Star that Tuju had complained of chest pains following the accident and had to be taken to the Intensive Care Unit. Tuju was injured in a morning crash on his way to the late and former President Daniel Moi's funeral in Kabarak. He was airlifted to Nairobi for further treatment after complaining of chest pains. Ruto said, "Our prayers and best wishes to Cabinet Secretary and Jubilee Party Secretary-General Raphael Tuju and all those that were involved in today’s morning accident at Magina in Lari, Kiambu County. We wish you a speedy recovery." Tuju's car collided with a matatu belonging to Nuclear Sacco, which was heading towards Nairobi. Central police boss  Mwarungu Kalimbo said the matatu rammed into a salon car at Magina as it slowed to negotiate a junction. He said the matatu driver lost control of the vehicle and swerved to the right side and collided with Tuju's Prado which was moving towards Nakuru. The matatu driver was put on life support. Last year, Ruto opened a battlefront with Tuju, believed to be a major obstacle to his complete takeover of the Jubilee Party. The DP chided Tuju over his alleged new roles in Raila Odinga camp. Ruto on his Twitter page said it is surprising at how Tuju had become the chief strategist in Raila’s inner circle. “So our democracy is so liberal that the SG of the ruling party has become the chief strategist of the opposition!! Maajabu,” Ruto said. Tuju had told the Daily Nation that he had made a move that had put him in Raila’s inner circle. This Tuju said was occasioned by Raila’s change of political style. According to an article published by the publication, Tuju said his entry into Raila’s ‘kitchen Cabinet’ is based on the quest by the handshake to unify the country. That he said is the goal which is in tandem with his own beliefs. But Uhuru’s men and close associates of Opposition chief Raila Odinga claimed the Deputy President's punches were aimed at Uhuru himself, and Tuju was just a pawn in the power games. The tweet triggered fierce reactions and some social media users told Ruto that he himself was a beneficiary of liberal democracy, numerous times contradicting his boss without being sacked.