The High Court has directed the speaker of the county assembly of Kiambu to provide impeached Governor Ferdinand Waititu with the Hansard proceedings of December when MCAs voted him out. Justice James Makau issued the directive after Waititu through lawyer Wilfred Nyamu said the respondents in the case had declined to issue him with the documents. Waititu will also be provided with Senate proceedings of his impeachment last week and a copy of the county assembly division list as he challenges his removal. He was allowed to amend his petition owing to the fact that some of the orders he had sought had already been overtaken by events. Waititu had on Thursday last week sought orders restraining any organs from implementing the Senate's resolution passed on January 29 and any consequential action accruing from it. He also applied for an order stopping the gazettement of the date, time and place for the swearing in ceremony of James Nyoro as the Governor of Kiambu County. But these events have already taken place . “I was unlawfully and unprocedurally removed from office by the assembly on 19 December and subsequently a resolution by the Senate passed on 29 of January this year.  The resolution of the assembly was passed with a vote 57 way below the required threshold of 62 as enshrined under section 33 (1) of the County Governments Act,” he said. Section 33 of the law dictates that the quorum for supporting the motion should be two thirds of the total number of the members of the assembly, which is 62. Notably, 30 members of the county assembly were not present, as contained in their affidavits dated December 19, 2019 and January, 24, 2020. Waititu said  the resolution for impeachment as was presented to the Senate by the county assembly was founded on grave violations of their Standing Orders, key fundamental rights and constitutional guarantees, and the right to a fair hearing as guaranteed by the Constitution. Yesterday, Waititu attempted to obtain an order from the same court to stop Nyoro from appointing a deputy governor. He faulted the state for the manner in which he was impeached and the swearing in of Nyoro, which he termed illegal. His lawyers urged the court to balance the rights of all those affected by the resolution passed by the assembly and Senate. “There is a David and Goliath before you but there is also the rule of law. Give them half of the cherry. Let’s restrict their powers. Waititu had the right to hold that office,” said lawyer Peter Wanayama. But the assembly and the Senate opposed the order sought by Waititu and accused him of amending his petition through the backdoor. They said no such order had been listed in his petition and it would only be right if he formally amended his documents first. Nyoro through lawyer Kibe Mungai said the governor can only nominate and not appoint a DG. “The appointment is not a single act but a process,” Kibe said. Judge Makau subsequently declined to issue the order as Waititu had not demonstrated what prejudice he would suffer. He also said that the matter had been listed for directions and not a hearing and it would be prejudicial for the other parties. He directed that the case be mentioned on February 27 and Waititu amends his petition.