An angry mob in Matuu market flushed out a murder suspect who was loitering in the market before lynching him using stones in Yatta sub county of Machakos. The 30-year-old man is said to have attacked a local hotelier on Saturday morning after the argument before stabbing him on the shoulders several times. According to the eye witness, the suspect timed the trader as he was opening his business and they started arguing for an unknown reason. "They started to fight where he stubbed him using a kitchen knife and ran away." Said the witness. The trader, 37 years old who operates in Matuu market was rushed to Matuu level 4 hospital in Yatta sub county but succumbed to injuries and died. The suspect then went into hiding in the morning hours but later was spotted loitering in the market where the angry mob frogmarched, lynched and beat him up to death. Yatta sub county police commander Joseph Karanja said the suspect is alleged to have been attacking residents in Matuu with unconfirmed rumors of always carrying a knife with him. "They were arguing when the suspect removed a knife from his pocket and stabbed him to death several times at around 6am in the morning", he said. He added, "the suspect was later corned by the locals beaten him up but police managed to rescue him where he died on the way to the hospital". Karanja said police arrived at the scene a bit too late as he was badly injured by the angry mob and rushed him to Matuu level 4 hospital. Karanja said police have launched investigations on the matter. He urged members of the public to allow the police to conduct investigations instead of taking matters in their own hands. "I want to say that no matter what crime a suspect has committed, no one has the right to kill them. Let them inform the police first and hand over the matter to us instead of taking justice in their hands. They should follow the law," he said. The two bodies were moved to Matuu level 4 hospital mortuary in Yatta. This comes barely a week after another suspect was similarly killed with his body set on fire, in Masinga for killing his neighbour's wife. Police said the two were alleged to be lovers but the suspect stabbed the woman several times to death after he was unable to raper her.