A Cabinet Secretary was in for a rude shock when he thought he would follow President Uhuru Kenyatta everywhere as the head of state led the nation in viewing the body of former President Daniel arap Moi in Parliament. After viewing the body, Uhuru went to condole with the bereaved family at a holding room. The CS followed closely behind but was stopped at the door to the room by a military officer. “You don’t know me,” the CS was heard telling the officer, who responded by saying the military was in -charge of everything, and he would only do what his seniors tell him. Feeling embarrassed, the CS waited outside. A politician destined for a senior position in one of the counties is becoming crafty. Our little bird has reliable information that the politician is about to get a phoney degree from a local university. Apparently, the politician is being pushed by very highly placed technocrats who have colluded with some crooked university officials to accomplish the shameful thing. Word is out that the unqualified nominee lacks basic qualifications to ascend to the coveted office but tribesmen are determined to ensure the seat is secured come rain, come shine. A junior official at the university being coerced to issue a  fake degree certificate has already shared the hard copy of the original graduands book of the year the senior county official in waiting purportedly got the power to read and do all that appertains to the ‘degree’. City Hall’s Environment department should act swiftly. In the last few months, a bad habit has been creeping in among garbage transporters as they do not cover the refuse they transport on their trucks. The uncovered garbage not only drop on city roads but they stink so badly that the smell of a skunk appears far better. The smell emanating from the decomposing trash leave residents chocking. Worse is when such trucks are stuck in traffic jams near big hotels frequented by international tourists. Could City Hall issue orders to the transporters to compel them to cover the refuse? The headteacher of a public secondary school in the North Rift has been thrust into the spotlight for engaging in all manner of unscrupulous activities to make money for himself. The headteacher is said to have turned the school into a centre of church services on Sundays. A resident told Corridors that classrooms host about six churches on Sundays. He claimed pastors of these churches give part of the Sunday offerings to the headteacher, with the money never going into the school’s bank accounts. And as if that is not enough, the headteacher is said to hire out the school bus almost every weekend to residents attending funerals.