Over 50 families from Kitibei village in Bartolimo, Baringo North subcounty, cannot access their homes after their key road was blocked in a land dispute. On Friday, more than 30 youths from the Kapnyekwel clan armed with pangas and arrows protested and fenced off the three-kilometre Bartolimo-Korokorwonin-Kitibei access road with rocks, poles and barbed wire. “They claim their ancestral land in Kitibei has been destroyed insisting to have an audience from the authorities’ before allowing usage of the new road,” Kitibei resident Vincent Cherogony said. Cherogony said they watched as "hired goons” fenced off the road threatening to kill anyone daring to open it. He said the road connects Kitibei primary school, water sources, dispensaries, cattle dip, markets and churches. Millions of county funds were allocated to open up the feeder road commissioned last week by Saimo-Kipsaraman ward MCA John Aengwo. However, residents accuse Bartolimo location Chief Isaac Chemjor of colluding with his Kapnyekwel tribesmen to frustrate any development projects for Kitibei village. “We are still left wondering why the vehicles of the culprits were parked in the chief’s compound and he even donated the barbed wire used to fence the road,” Cherogony said. Chemjor denied any involvement. During the protest, Kipsamaran Area County Commissioner Timothy Maiyo and Issas sublocation assistant chief Daniel Kibii were ordered to leave the site. A local administrator who sought anonymity disputed claims by the Kapnyekwel community saying they weren't engaged before the opening up of the road. She said she herself witnessed three meetings about it. Tension remains high as the affected families regrouped but both the armed police officers and the village elders failed to resolve the dispute Kitibei primary school teacher Margaret Cheptirim said her pupils were forced to use longer routes to school. “We call upon the government to intervene urgently to address the situation before it gets out of hand,” Cheptirim said. Baringo north subcounty commissioner Bobwocha Obwocha said the matter is under investigation, but meanwhile the road remains closed. Last week a man from Tiloi in Ossen-Kabartonjo ward in the same subcounty was shot with two arrows following a land boundary dispute that led to a retaliatory attack. Four houses of the suspect were torched. (Edited by V. Graham) 