 The directive that police officers wear uniforms while on duty has helped in curbing crime in Nairobi, regional police commander Philip Ndolo has said. Ndolo said that policing in towns and cities is about the uniform. “If you police using civilians, nobody will know police presence. Fighting crime is a matter of colour,” Ndolo said. He said that security in Nairobi had improved since the directive on police to wear uniforms was implemented. Ndolo spoke to Star in his office on Monday. “For instance, we had zero crime in the city during the census exercise in August 2019 due to police presence everywhere. Criminals were scared to see police in uniforms up to their residences during the exercise. They stayed indoors,” he said. Ndolo said that criminals get scared whenever they see police officers around thereby making them refrain from committing a crime. He said the presence of police vehicles in police stations also reduces crime by about 50 percent. The police boss said the directive was not new but a reinforcement of what had been there though not taken seriously. “Only undercover police in special assignments should get to work in civilian clothes. All other officers should be in uniforms for their physical presence to be seen and felt,” Ndolo said. The Integrated Command Control Centre recently launched at Jogoo House has also helped in fighting crime, not only in Nairobi but across the country, the official said. He said the cameras project had reduced car theft syndicate since 90 percent of all stolen vehicles are recovered after the photos and videos are circulated. Ndolo warned serial criminals that it was a matter of time before they were eliminated in case they don’t reform. “There is no extrajudicial killing if someone is gunned down at the scene of crime exchanging fire with police,” Ndolo said. He added, “Extrajudicial killing is where several individuals are gunned down by police without any course.” He said police officers are all well trained and qualified, the reason they were incorporated in the service hence should diligently work until they retire. Ndolo said that a few rogue elements in the service should be held individually responsible for their recklessness. “I have told my officers to think about necessity, legality, and proportionality of circumstances before using excessive force,” he said.  edited by p.o