ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has opposed the introduction of regional governments as part of his party's submissions to the BBI Steering Committee. Mudavadi said the country should not burden Kenyans anymore with another level of government from the current existing ones. "We are very categorical as ANC. We are totally against the introduction of a third-tier of government as has been suggested at some BBI popularization public rallies," Mudavadi said. Adding on ANC's governance submissions, Mudavadi said the country should uphold the current number of counties which stands at 47. "We agree with the BBI Report recommendation that the 47 counties must be retained. We recommend that these 47 counties must be made to function with the support of Regional Economic Blocs and full implementation of devolution as envisaged," he said. He also said his party is in support of the BBI report on the creation of the National Executive Structure comprising of the President, Deputy President and a Prime Minister who is appointed by the President and subject to approval by the Parliament. "The structure of the Executive arm of Government must uphold and respect the principle of one person-one-vote. We are strictly opposed to any attempt to create multiple, conflicting or ambiguous centres of State authority," Mudavadi said. Mudavadi said that the PM's responsibilities must be clearly defined and safeguarded. "If need be, the Prime Minister can have a deputy or two deputies," he said. He said ANC is supporting the creation of the opposition leader's office with a shadow cabinet corresponding to that of the official cabinet. The former vice-president said his party was concerned by the country's state of public debt. He said there is an urgent need to re-examine the country's debt portfolio with a view of renegotiating the terms to favourable repayment terms. The party also proposed adequate funding to the Judiciary and investigative offices and the office of the prosecutor as a way of fighting corruption. He said there should be continuous and random lifestyle audits of public officers as another way of dealing with corruption. He added that asset recovery mechanisms should go for the seizure of unexplained wealth in relation to wealth declaration and returns filed. Mudavadi said the government should enhance its programme of attachment and internship policy through the National Industrial Training Authority (NITA)to prepare the youth for the job market. The party further suggested that the composition and size of IEBC should be drawn from qualified Kenyans with requisite competencies and command the trust of Kenyans to deliver on free, fair and credible elections. Mudavadi said presently, the electoral commission "lacks the capacity and necessary autonomy to run its affairs as an independent body". He said the commission should be provided with enough fundings to allow it to perform its functions just as other independent bodies. "The funding of IEBC should be drawn directly from the consolidated funds to avoid executive mischieve," Mudavadi said. The party also proposed that the security of tenure and term limits for all public and constitutional officers must be strictly protected and respected. The party added that there should be no attempts to create new guises for these offices, both during the life of the tenure and after the tenure of any one state officer in charge for the time being. These offices include the office of the Inspector General of police, the office of the Director of Public Prosecution, Ombudsman, CBK Governor, AG, Auditor General, Controller of Budget, IEBC Chairman and EACC. Other offices named by the party are the Solicitor General, Chief Justice and President of the Judiciary, as well as those of County Governors and National Executive. The party said that to address gender issues, the gains made by women and persons with disabilities should be enhanced. Those efforts should be undertaken to address the barriers that hinder more women and persons with disabilities from participating in the electoral process. The party also expressed its belive that the BBI report will be fully implemented unlike some of the taskforces that have been formed before yet the findings never get implemented.