Western Kenya is likely to experience wetter than usual long rains. The Greater Horn of Africa Climate Outlook indicates that it will be a warmer and wetter season for most countries in the region. The weather forecast for March-April-May period showed that Western Kenya, parts of Uganda, Rwanda and South Sudan will have a wetter than usual season which may lead to flash floods. “The October-November-December short rains season was on one of the wettest on record leading to major floods across the region which affected infrastructure and livelihoods. Stakeholders should implement the required mitigation measures,” the outlook read. The Kenya Meteorological department analysis of the 2019 seasonal rainfall indicated that the whole country received enhanced rainfall. n Kenya, the weatherman has warned of strong winds of more than 25 knots over the Coast and Northern Kenya from Saturday. In the five-day weather forecast, the Met department said there will be light showers in several parts of the country. Areas that will receive light to moderate rainfall are Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia. Residents of Nairobi, Nyandarua, Laikipia, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu and Tharaka Nithi Counties will also receive light rains during the forecast period. Dry and sunny conditions are likely to continue over northern parts of the country throughout the forecast period. Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu, Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo Counties will have sunny intervals and partly cloudy conditions. There will be rains over few places in Kitui, Makueni, Machakos, Kajiado and Taita Taveta Counties in the morning followed by sunny intervals with showers over few places and cloudy conditions at night. Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwalecounties will have a mix of showers, sunny intervals and cloudy conditions spread across. “The generally enhanced rainfall performance in the country was mainly as a result of the strong positive Indian Ocean Dipole. This was due to the prevailing warm sea surface Temperatures in the western Equatorial Indian Ocean adjacent to the East African Coast and the cool sea surface temperatures in the eastern Equatorial Indian Ocean adjacent to Australia,” the met said. The heavy and widespread short rains have contributed to the worst desert locust outbreak to hit Kenya in 70 years and 25 years in Ethiopia and Somalia. The African Climate Outlook further indicated that there will be earlier than usual starts of rains across the region especially in Western and Eastern Kenya, northern Tanzania and Uganda, and southern parts of Ethiopia and Somalia. “A delayed rainfall onset is expected over several parts of Ethiopia and Somalia. These areas are also likely to have prolonged dry periods a few weeks after the start of the season. Drier than usual conditions are expected over others parts of Ethiopia and Tanzania,” the seasonal outlook indicated. (Edited by V. Graham) 