Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju has been flown to the UK for specialised treatment following orders by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Tuju, a close ally of the President, was involved in a grisly road accident last Wednesday at Kijabe Hospital while enroute to Kabarak for the burial of the late President Daniel Moi. The Star has established that Tuju was driven to Jomo Kenyatta International Airport before midday on Thursday. He was to be received in London by Kenyan envoy to UK Manoah Esipisu, although the hospital where he would be admitted remains unclear. The plane carrying the CS is set to touch down in London by 9.30pm, Kenyan time. On Thursday, the government dispatched three CSs to ensure Tuju, who had been admitted at the Karen Hospital for a week, is efficiently moved. They are Education CS George Magoha, Health CS Sicily Kariuki and Sports CS Amina Mohamed. The three accompanied him to the airport, however, only his personal doctor, his wife and one of his children flew with him to London. “All I can say is that his condition has generally improved,” a source at the Karen Hospital told the Star. Tuju had reportedly broken two ribs and had some injuries in the intestines. He also complained of difficulty in breathing. There were also fears that some of his internal organs could also have been injured during the head-on collision with a matatu. He underwent an emergency surgery at Kijabe Hospital before being airlifted to Nairobi. At the Karen Hospital, Tuju was sedated for days and only his family, close friends and top government officials were allowed to visit. However, on Tuesday, the Jubilee Party announced that he had been weaned off sedation and assured the public he was responding well to treatment. “He is conscious and fully in control of his limbs just as he was when he walked into the accident and emergency section of Kijabe Hospital,” Jubilee Communication Director Albert Memusi announced. Tuju –a close friend to the Kenyatta family – has been an asset to Uhuru and was the centre of Jubilee political organisation ahead of the 2017 polls. Sources said the President has been personally involved to ensure Tuju gets the best medical care. Among those  who visited him in hospital including Deputy President William Ruto.