Western Stima is determined to return to winning ways against Kariobangi Sharks when the Kenya Premier League resumes tomorrow after a one week break. The power men, whose future is uncertain after their sponsors Kenya Power allegedly hinted on their withdrawal, have not won in five encounters in the league. Club chairman Laban Jobita, however, denied reports that Kenya Power had withdrawn sponsorship. " I have not received any letter from the KPLC management asking me to terminate any player's contract. All that's going around I'm only seeing it on social media," he added. "I can confirm that some proposals have been made and we expect some changes in the team but not contract termination as rumoured in some quarters,” he said in a statement posted on the club's social media pages. He said their focus is on the Kariobangi Sharks game and appealed to fans to attend the game in large numbers. The last win was on January 5 against Mathare United and coach Salim Babu says the situation is worrying. “It is a must-win game for us even though we don't expect an easy game from Sharks. It's long since we tasted a win. We have gone five games without a win which is not good for us,” Babu said. Babu was speaking after beating National Division One side Kisumu Hot Stars 3-1 in a friendly match at Moi Stadium in Kisumu. Due to austerity measures introduced by the sponsors, the club no longer goes camping before games and this could have impacted on the club's performance. Stima will, however, be without Villa Oromchan who was sent off during their 1-1 draw against Gor Mahia and Harambee Stars goalkeeper Samuel Abawa Odhiambo who has been away for close to a month due to illness. Babu said Abawa has been unwell since he returned from Uganda where he represented Kenya in the Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup. In his absence, Samuel Njau is expected to retain his position in goal. Separately, Kisumu Hot Stars coach Hezzy Obungu says his team is going for maximum points in the National Division One when they face log leaders Soy United at Moi Stadium in Kisumu on Saturday. “We are under pressure to move from the fifth position. From the game against Stima, it clearly shows we have to work on our defence and finishing,” said the youthful coach.