Agnes Kinya is the latest millionaire in the country after she won the  Shs 15 Million Betika Midweek Jackpot Agnes, who operates a roadside chips kiosk, correctly predicted 15 games with Sh15 to emerge the winner. She is the first woman to win Betika’s Midweek Jackpot and could not hide her joy at being the latest millionaire in the country. Agnes started betting in 2016 with no significant wins, which led her to join and try her luck on the Betika platform, she registered a few periodic small wins that motivated her to continue placing bets with the sports betting firm. “On 21st February, while in Makindu, I picked my 15-game selection and for some reason, I had a particularly good feeling about this bet. I even called my husband and told him to expect some good news! In the evening, I watched a few games at home and dozed off but woke up around 12:38 am and when I checked my phone, I saw that I had correctly predicted all 15 games," said Agnes. "I quickly told my husband about the news and he thought I was just joking!! When he saw my bet slip, he was very happy and excited! I could barely sleep for the rest of the night." “From January, I have been placing bets every week, spending up to Ksh 100 every weekend and even though I registered some wins, I never won a huge amount. I did not give up because I love analyzing games and betting,” she remarked. As for her future plans, Agnes plans to build residential flats with her prize money to earn her and her family sustainable income. Speaking during the handing over of the cheque, Betika’s Business Head, John Mbatiah expressed his delight at Agnes’ win. "At Betika, we will always ensure that we offer our customers a credible platform where they enjoy their favourite sport as they place their bets on a platform that offers them the best experience with great rewards," said Mbatia. "Agnes not only wins Sh15m but we have also partnered with a credible financial advisory firm to offer her both financial and legal advice on prudent use. We also encourage all our customers to engage in responsible gaming as they continue betting on the sports that they love."