Some of the 29 children of former veteran Rift Valley politician William Murgor were not recognised by him as his biological offspring and therefore were denied a share of his Sh2 billion estate. The number of those supposedlydisinherited was not disclosed in court.  The revelation was made by Keiyo North MP Dr James Murgor, a son, who was testifying on Thursday at the High Court in Eldoret in a succession case over the Murgor's estate. He had been MP for Kerio Central. He said some of supposed children were denied a share of  Murgor's estate because before he died the elder Murgor had indicated he doubted if some of the children were his biological offspring. “Mzee did not include some of the children in the share of his estate before he died because he felt they were not his biological sons and daughters and there was no way we could have gone against his wish,” the MP told the court. Murgor was being cross-examined by lawyer Phillip Murgor who is representing some of the daughters and widows of the politician in the succession case filed at the High Court by Enid Murgor, a daughter who lives in the US. In court papers, Enid accuses the MP who is serving his second term of sidelining them in the distribution of their father’s wealth. The estate includes vast agricultural land and commercial plots in the North Rift region. It includes farms in Eldoret and other parts of North Rift Valley. Documents filed in court indicate Murgor died from Alzheimer’s disease on September 28, 2006, at age 87. He had five wives — Soti Murgor who had five children; Rosa Kimoi with nine children, Rosalina Murgor with six, Anna Murgorwith eight and Philomena Murgor with one child. The dispute is being heard by Justice Hellen Omondi after several attempts to have the matter resolved out of court failed last year. The court had appointed a mediator to help them but after a series of meetings, the mediator reported that the mediation process had failed. Earlier there was drama in the court when the MP quarrelled with lawyer Murgor over reference by the lawyer to Murgor as MP. The lawyer kept on referring to Dr Murgor as "Honourable", but the legislator protested saying he did not want to be referred to as an MP in the case. “I want you to stop referring to me as Honourable MP. Just refer me as James Murgor because you will make me angry, "he said. Justice Omondi told Dr Murgor that there was nothing wrong with being referred to as MP because he was indeed one. “Don’t be carried away by emotions while being cross-examination and instead accept the title you are being referred to by the lawyer because he was doing so in good faith and respect," Omondi said. The court was also told that the documents and signatures used by the MP to give himself a huge part of the estate were a forgery. Murgor was asked to produce documentary evidence before the court could give him power of attorney to distribute Murgor's property. The matter is set for further hearing on April 3 and 23. (Edited by V. Graham)  