The Council of Governors on Wednesday paid homage to the late President Daniel Moi's family at his residence at Kabarnet Gardens, Nairobi. Led by the deputy chair, who is also Murang'a governor Mwangi wa Iria, the governors said former and late Mzee Moi was the pioneer of the current system of governance. "In those days, while he was still in KADU he was at the forefront fighting for majimboism," wa Iria said. He added that various projects being carried out by the current government had been started during Mzee Moi's time. "If you look at agriculture as an item in our Big Four Agenda, Moi was very passionate in tree planting which is environmental conservation and soil conservation," he said. He added that "some of the things which we are struggling with today, actually Moi was championing them those days". The Murang'a governor said that Nyayo wards in hospitals, Nyayo Pioneer Programmes and schools started during his time are some of the things to remember Mzee Moi with. He asked the former President's son Gideon, who is the Baringo Senator, to emulate his father when it comes to leadership and vowed to support him. "We are also looking upon you... an apple does not fall too far from the tree. So in you, we expect continuity of what your father was," the Murang'a Governor said. Kericho Governor Paul Chepkwony said Mzee Moi championed for a girl child by constructing schools across the country for girls. "Most of the girls' schools were build during Moi's era," Chepkwony said. Chepkwony added that Moi will be remembered for building many charges and fighting the illicit brew. Tana River governor Dhadho Godana said Moi had a network system of leadership where the village elders were involved in seeing the president and contributing to the development of the country. Marsabit Governor Mohammed Abshiro descibed Moi as a patriotic leader. Mzee Moi died on Tuesday at the Nairobi Hospital where he was being treated. His son Gideon Moi said Mzee Moi died peacefully at 5am while being surrounded by his family members. The former President will receive top military and civilian honours in an elaborate state funeral at his Kabarak home. The family of the country's second president on Tuesday said the State had taken over the funeral programme. According to the plan, there will be a public viewing of the body from Saturday to Monday next week. A funeral service will be held on Tuesday before the burial on Wednesday next week. The Head of the Public Service Joseph Kinyua will lead the arrangements for the funeral likely to be attended by continental and world leaders. More: