Retired President Daniel Moi walked with a bible throughout his life, a Baringo-based religious leader has revealed. Full Gospel Churches of Kenya Kabarnet Bishop Daniel Chemon said the word of God (the Bible) and Moi were inseparable friends. “He was totally a unique Christian who never thought at any given time of shelving his faith to tackle worldly things like politics,” Chemon said. He made the revelation while accompanying hundreds to pass their condolences outside Governor Stanley Kiptis’s offices in Kabarnet town on Tuesday. “Moi’s Christian faith was totally different from others who served God during the day and minded businesses of the darkness during the night. He walked with the bible throughout his life,” the cleric said. He cited it as a possible reason Moi lived long, further saying the way Mzee handled his faith and the church ought to be emulated even by all generations. During his tenure, Moi helped to build several churches especially the Full Gospel, African Inland Church and Catholic in Baringo and across the county. “Therefore, on behalf of all churches, I take this opportunity to condole with the family friends and relatives of the late Mzee Moi for the great loss, May his soul rest in eternal peace,” Chemon said. Moi died after a long illness at the Nairobi Hospital on Tuesday morning around 5.30am. Furthermore, the cleric said Moi will be remembered forever "for touching and improving the lives of many people both in Kenya and across the world". He said the former head of state was allergic to alcoholic drinks, “he fought alcoholism and funded building of many churches and schools". “We lost a great leader. I remember in the 1980s, he closed down bars and then funded the building of churches and schools across the country." Hundreds of people including former civic leaders and MCAs also thronged to condole and mourn with the Moi’s family. Deputy Governor Jacob Chepkwony eulogised Moi as a humble, diligent, committed and dedicated leader. Chepkwony said Mzee Moi will be remembered forever for, among others establishing numerous learning institutions, hospitals and opening up roads. “We condole with the family, friends and relatives during this time of grief. The Nation and the entire world have lost a true servant,” he said. Also present were MCAs Silas Tochim (Tenges), Jennifer Kabon (Kapropita), John Aengwo (Saimo-Kipsaraman), Kipruto Kimosop (Mochongoi), John Tarus (Sacho), Francisca Cheburet (nominated Kanu), former Kabarnet town Mayor Ambrose Kandie, former Deputy Mayor Joshua Matetai, former civic leaders James Cheptoo and William Cherambus. Edited by R.Wamochie