DPP Noordin Haji wants clear guidelines on the issuance of police and personal bonds to combat corruption and decongest police stations. In particular, Haji wants all people accused of offences punishable by a fine or imprisonment of not more than six months granted police bonds unless otherwise provided for by the law. The proposal comes in the backdrop of a report by the Judiciary's Bail and Bonds Implementation committee that police stations faced problems in the administration of bails and bond. Police Force Standing Orders require the officer in charge of a police station to release any person arrested for a minor offence on bail – as a general rule – unless the officer has good grounds for believing the accused will not attend court when required. But in practice, managements of police stations over-rely on their discretion, using it to frustrate arrested persons and only releasing them on police bond unless they are bribed. The amount set for offences also varies per station. Kenyans, who deserve bail as a matter of right are the ones suffering, Haji noted. The DPP, who spoke during the launch of status report on the implementation of bail and bond guidelines last week, suggests that the police bond guidelines be set and strictly observed to rein in arbitrary pre-trial detention. Haji said such reforms would bring about uniformity, consistency and predictability in the administration of bail and bonds at the stations. The report of the committee led by High Court judge Jessie Lessit indicated that most police stations lacked awareness or were ignorant of the guidelines of bail and bond, hence mismanaging it to the disadvantage of the arrested. It says that the maintenance of records at most of the police stations it visited appeared to be haphazard, hampering the extraction of the required bail and bond data it needed. "Police records did not facilitate the extraction of the required bail and bond data with ease," the report launched by Chief Justice David Maraga read. It also found that most police stations held huge sums of money awaiting refunding, increasing the risk of the funds getting misused. Police stations tend to forfeit the cash bails to the exchequer, presenting "a challenge to rural claimants who incur a considerable cost in making their claim in Nairobi". Further, the report also shows that police stations are insufficiently resourced to deal with accused persons with a disability, especially the mentally ill. Edited by R.Wamochie