Joseph Ekidor, 34, sits under the hot sun in an expansive grazing land in Kibish, Turkana North. He slings a loaded AK47 rifle on his shoulders when he rises to drive his hundreds of cattle to a water pan nearby. Kibish is the most fertile region of Turkana North, and the pasture found there is fought over by the Turkana of Kenya, Dong’iro and Merille of Ethiopia and Toposa from South Sudan. The area forms part of the Elemi triangle, which has been contested by Kenya, Sudan and Ethiopia. Kenya currently has effective control of the region. Ekidor says for many years, conflicts caused by cattle rustling raids by bandits from neighbouring countries have led to the loss of lives and livestock. He cannot imagine being powerless to defend himself from attacks should the state take away his arms. He says the forced disarmament programme by the government will expose them to attacks by raiders from Uganda, Ethiopia and South Sudan. “We are forced to illegally acquire firearms from neighbouring countries to protect our lives, livestock and territories," he says. Ekidor urged the government to empower them and step up security in the region before the forced disarmament exercise. SELF-DEFENCE The government's push to disarm illegal gun owners in Turkana and five other counties in the Kerio Valley began in July last year. The state estimated that that 8,000 guns would be collected in the North Rift region from bandits and other civilians. Addressing the press in July, Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya said an operation to mop up illegal firearms would begin in 60 days. The government said it wanted to stamp out rampant cattle rustling in Turkana, Baringo, West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet, Samburu and Laikipia. The two-month grace period would allow the gun owners to voluntarily surrender them to the authorities. Natembeya warned chiefs who would not support the move that they would be sacked. But during the amnesty window, only 203 firearms were surrendered. Turkana South surrendered about 120 firearms, more than those received from Turkana North, Turkana West, Turkana Central, Kibish and Loima. Other than protecting themselves and their cattle, young Turkana men find a use for the guns in an important part of their culture. Getting a wife and marrying her is a rite that many youths seek to pass through. For a Turkana wedding to take place, a man has to pay hundreds of goats, sheep, donkey and camels as dowry to the bride's family. These do not come easy. In many cases, deadly raids have to be conducted for one to acquire cattle for dowry. For this reason, many youths are reluctant to surrender their arms as they might remain unmarried forever if the cannot pay the dowry. IMPROVED SECURITY Officials have been quick to tout the gains the programme began last year has achieved so far. Turkana South deputy county commissioner Philip Sigei said there is a great improvement of security since it began. He said cases of cattle rustling within the border of West Pokot and Baringo counties have reduced. Fewer cased of robberies and theft along Kitale-Lodwar route have also been reported, he said. Such assurances mean nothing to Jane Ekiru of Kibish, who lost a husband to bandits in 2014. Ekiru says her husband was killed by Merille militia from Ethiopia while looking after cattle in Kibish. She is not ready to lose her loved ones again, she says. “Life has not been easy for me and my six children. I have to wake up early in the morning and arm myself with a gun to drive cattle to the grazing field,” she says. ASSESSING PROGRESS In December last year, Natembeya visited Turkana to assess the progress of the disarmament. The regional commissioner toured the areas that have been hard hit by insecurity in Kibish, Turkana North, Loima and Turkana South. He said conflicts in pastoral communities are being fueled by the possession of illegal firearms. Natembeya said a multi-agency team is in operation in the area to tighten security, and told residents not to worry because all the Turkana corridors are covered. “There is a Rapid Deployment Unit, General Service Unit, Patrol Unit and Armored Personnel Carrier deployed in the region to respond to any insecurity issues,” he said. The administrator said the governments of Kenya, Ethiopia, Uganda and South Sudan are in talks to enforce the forced disarmament in their borders. He said the East African Community members are aware that illegal firearms and cattle rusting hinder development and slow down economic growth. “We held a meeting in Mombasa with commissioners from Uganda and consented to conduct uniform forced disarmament. Ethiopia and South Sudan also have plans to confiscate the illegal firearms from hands of civilians as a way to stamp out cattle rustling,” Natembeya said. The regional commissioner also announced they are on course to reorganise the National Police Reservists to better manage the country's security. He said the border is vast and the government cannot deploy all security officers along the border. There are plans to recruit youths from the community who will be trained and deployed to the police camps to respond to conflicts related to cattle rustling, he said. Like Ekidor, Peter Ekai is a resident of Kibish. Ekai, however, is not opposed to the idea of disarmament but has conditions for the state. He wants the government to first step up security in the region before it can ask that they surrender illegal firearms. Ekai says Turkana has experienced insecurity along the borders but the government has relaxed and been unable to guarantee the safety of residents. “There are some corridors where security officers can’t go whenever we need their help,” he says. He said they are ready for peace but are worried about their security should the government apply force to take their guns.