The government plans to build two primary schools in Ruiru constituency to tackle congestion, MP Simon King’ara has said. This comes as the state is facing infrastructural hurdles in its pursuit to achieve 100 per cent transition of learners joining secondary schools. On Thursday, MP King’ara disclosed that plans are at an advanced stage to construct Manguo Primary School in Githurai to decongest Mwiki Primary School that currently has more than 3,700 pupils. He spoke while commissioning two classrooms at Githurai-Kimbo Primary School. The classes were built by the National Government Constituency Development Fund office. "We have already purchased the land and a contractor will start construction works any time from now. Once complete, the new school will enrol 1,500 pupils out of the 3,700 at Mwiki Primary School," he said. The lawmaker noted that the current facilities, including classrooms, desks and sanitary amenities such as lavatories at Mwiki Primary are not enough to accommodate and offer a favourable learning and working environment for pupils and teachers. "Infrastructure shortage is still a major problem in most schools especially as the government is implementing 100 per cent transition policy. At Mwiki Primary, being one of the schools, there’s dire need to provide resources to end this challenge," King'ara said. "We have so far constructed 30 classrooms in schools across Ruiru constituency and plans to add 18 more are underway. Our aim is to have enough facilities to cater for the rising number of learners joining school and enhance the government’s 100 per cent transition policy." The lawmaker said the works will be done by the national government through the Ministry of Education in collaboration with the NG-CDF office. He disclosed that another primary school will be constructed in Mutuya area in Mwihoko ward. He said the entire ward has only one public primary school, Mwihoko Primary that serves a dense population, hence the new school will be a relief for residents and their children. He did not disclose the amount of money the state will spend on the project as it’s still at the design stage. "The new schools are an indicator that the government is determined to ensure every child gets access to education and improve education standards in Ruiru and the country at large," King'ara said. He urged the state through the Ministry of Education to increase allocation for expansion of school facilities to facilitate the achievement of 100 per cent transition. "The Ministry of Education should allocate enough funds to schools for expansion so we can pool together with the CDF resources to ensure the necessary infrastructure required is put up for the sake of our children." King’ara also called on corporate entities, through their social responsibility programmes, to chip in and assist schools put up the required facilities.