Narok Senator Ledama Olekina's lawyer, George Wajackoyah is demanding the immediate release of his client citing malicious influence from adversaries. Wajackoyah said he is concerned why the detectives have already taken fingerprints and decided to prosecute Olekiama without a go-ahead from the Directorate of Public Prosecution. "He should be set to go home. If the offence is so much heinous, the constitution allows for bail. It seems as if we are drifting back to the previous regimes where people were incarcerated to settle scores," he said. Wajackoyah said Olekina is being held beyond limitations of the scope of powers. He was speaking to the media after Olekiama's arrest on Tuesday morning. The senator was arrested over his utterances made on February 19, during the JKL Interview on Citizen TV. He has been taken to the DCI headquarters for questioning The senator took to Twitter to announce his arrest and has been documenting details of his lock-up at Kilimani police station. In a video seen by the Star, he was addressing fellow Maasai clansmen where he said he is determined to get justice. "To the Maasai nation, today I was arrested and am in this lovely prison. Am involved in a quest for truth and justice and no amount of intimidation will deter me," he said. "This era of impunity where low-level government officials can exercise futility in terms of abrogation of the constitution we are going to court," Wajackoyah said. He claims the lawmaker was only excising his right to artistic expression. Moreover, the lawyer questioned why both Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and Moses Kuria have both abused the president severally but have been acquitted. "They better release him now so that we can reconcile," he said. National Cohesion and Integration Commission confirmed the arrest citing hate speech and incitement to violence. "These invective and diatribe utterances have caused animosity and triggered tension among the different communities living in Narok County," NCIC said. "We shall reiterate that BBI is not a tool for seeking or demonstrating political supremacy. The raised issue sought to be addressed candidly and resolved amicably without diving and inciting Kenyans. We shall not tolerate these kinds of utterances that are dividing Kenyan along ethnic and tribal lines. Any leader regardless of their political affiliation or station in life will be held accountable for their own actions". During the interview in JKL, the senator said last Saturday's BBI rally in Narok would be about the Maa community. Olekina had said two groups held meetings separately to articulate on issues to be addressed during the rally. He has also been accused of tribal remarks during the rally. A group of Rift Valley leaders have demanded a public apology by the embattled governor over his remarks. While speaking to the media, the MCAs expressed their disgust in Olekina's tribal leadership.