On the day he met his death, Victor Okoth left his house in Mathare 4A around 9am. The tension in the area could be felt as the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission streamed in the presidential election results, which showed President Uhuru Kenyatta leading. Okoth's mother said a police officer in plainclothes shot her son in the chest, and when he did not die immediately, another group of police armed with clubs set on him, until he died. “Okoth was shot at Number 10. My neighbours, who were on their balconies watching the unfolding scene, saw a man in a white shirt draped in a Maasai scarf across his shoulders to hide his gun open fire on the demonstrators,” she said. They had trailed the demonstrators and unfortunately, the bullet caught Victor. When he fell, another group immediately began hitting him so brutally that the people on the balconies started screaming, she adds. "They then dragged him to a corner, undressed him and left with the clothes.” That was to be the end of the 21-year-old father, who dropped out of school after his father’s death in 2010 to help his mother. Christopher Maina, aka Maish, was killed in broad daylight as witnesses watched in Mathare. Maina's wife said two plaincloth police officers approached him demanding to talk to him as he was putting up a stand for a water tank. It was February 21, 2017, around 2 pm. He left what he was doing and moved to where they were, but they grabbed him and started walking away. Concerned, some people followed them but the police shot in the air to disperse them. At that point, Maish started pleading for his life even going down on his knees. One of the officers shot him multiple times right there killing him instantly. The community held many demonstrations demanding justice but two years on, the two officers continue to walk free. I moved back to my mother’s house together with our son and survive on meagre jobs for survival. Nura Mohammed's mother said his son was shot by police at a close range in February 2015. He was coming back from the bathroom located outside the house when a police officer who was coming towards him started calling him by a foreign name. Nura ignored him and continued walking, but the officer, displeased with ‘no response’, shot him on the mouth and abdomen. Nura was pronounced dead shortly after he was taken to Kenyatta National Hospital. He was working at the Kiamaiko goat slaughterhouse and loved soccer. Missing Voices reported that at least 107 people were killed by police last year, a sharp increase from the previous year. Nairobi Police boss Philip Ndolo most of the cases where police kill are justifiable. He said there is a need to categorise case by case in order to find out if the police used excessive power unnecessarily. "If we want to categorise every case as extra-judicial killing and throw blanket blame at the police, we are not helping the situation," he said. "Last evening, a gang two youths who have been robbing motorists were fatally shot at Museum road. We recorded a hand-made gun and 9mm cartridge and stolen phone. One of the victims is a police officer," he explained. He said the thugs opened fire after they fell into a trap laid by the officers forcing officers to shoot back. Edited by R.Wamochie