Friction has rocked the Council of Governors over claims of highhandedness by a senior official. It is alleged the official's mistreatment of staff has also offended governors. Recently, a Mt. Kenya boss who had visited the Delta House offices was taken aback by the official's conduct. He is said to have casually greeted the county governor and without asking the reason for his visit. Then he walked off to play loud gospel music in a separate office. Does the COG boss and Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya know bout this? Corridors of Power understands the ruthless official is behind the high staff turnover. Some junior staff say the situation is out of control and unless swift action is done, the CoG will become nothing but theatre. A Nairobi magistrate left the courtroom in stitches after they realised he had asked a suspect to appear before him on a Sunday. Drama erupted when the suspect explained he could not attend as it was a Sunday. "Your Honour, I failed to come on the 26th because I realised it was a Sunday. I came on Monday only to find that my name was not on the list," he said. The magistrate later issued him another date and asked court orderlies to confirm whether the day was a weekday so as not to embarrass himself again. The chairman of an independent commission who had once publicly claimed he is always available on the phone does not pick calls. The powerful chairman even never responds to messages sent to his cellphone. Journalists are the worst hit by the chairman's not responding to queries, some of which are of public interest. To make matters worse, a communications officer working with the commission and who should be much readily available has only made matters worse. The officer, who was confirmed after the exit of a previous highly reachable colleague, appears to be a liability. Just who should the public add journalists call as those in charge have abdicated their duties to communicate? Things have gone south for the CEO of a commission a with countrywide presence. Last week he was chastised by the board for practising a silo mentality to the detriment of the agency. The official does not involve the commission on sensitive matters, including appropriating the budget as required and only seeks approval for money already committed. In one instance, he ordered a Toyota Prado for his his own use without the commission's approval. The Board chairman has threatened to write to the DCI and EACC requesting a probe into the financial appropriation by the CEO. The commission distanced itself from the improper purchase of the gas guzzler.    