JOHN TROON Superintendent John Troon who headed the New Scotland Yard investigation in to the murder of Dr Robert Ouko, retired from the Metropolitan Police in June 1990 although he did travel to Nairobi to hand over his ‘Final Report’ to the Attorney General Mr Justice Muli in September of the same year. After retirement from the police service, Troon worked as a security consultant. Now in full retirement, he lives on the coast in the English county of Cornwall. One of Troon’s two main theories as to a possible motive for the murder of Dr Robert Ouko, the ‘Kisumu Molasses corruption theory’, was based on the ‘hearsay’, ‘circumstantial’ and ‘tenuous’ testimony (Troon’s words) of just two witnesses. The witnesses were a Swiss-German woman Marianne Briner-Mattern and her Italian ‘partner’ Domenico Airaghi supposedly directors of a company they called ‘BAK’. Troon accepted their testimony because he ‘assessed’ them as being ‘honest’, and ‘reliable’ with a ‘reputation to defend’. So what happened to these two witnesses after Troon handed over his ‘Final Report’? MARIANNE BRINER-MATTERN Marianne Briner-Mattern, Troon’s and the Parliamentary Select Committee’s ‘star witness’, changed her story to the PSC in 2004 claiming that the real reason Ouko had been murdered was his knowledge of the provision of Ugandan prostitutes for President Moi’s delectation. Her company ‘BAK Group’, which had only been formally registered as a company in Switzerland on the 13th February 1990, the day that Dr Ouko was murdered, was wound up after bankruptcy proceedings in January 1992. Between 1992 and 1995 Briner-Mattern (and Airaghi) attempted to make a living through a business run from ‘a large garage’ by obtaining free samples of household domestic appliances from European companies and selling them in Tanzania. Briner-Mattern also went on to make a number of allegations. RAILA ODINGA – “HER ENTIRE STORY MAY BE FAKE” In 2004 Briner-Mattern claimed she had ‘scuttled’ Raila Odinga’s plans to become president after he allegedly failed to help her get ‘huge sums’ in compensation over her involvement in the Kisumu Molasses project. Raila Odinga told the East African Standard that Briner-Mattern had written to him about reviving the project but that she eventually demanded money from him in what he thought amounted to extortion. Odinga reportedly said, “If that is what she is saying then her entire story may be a fake”. SELECT COMMITTEE CORRUPTION? In 2005 Briner-Mattern accused some members of the PSC of accepting a $387,000‘pay off’, later asking for the amount to be raised to $465,000 to be wired to a private account in Kampala, to make sure the Committee’s conclusions came out right and that some of the money would be used to hire activists, including members of the Law Society of Kenya, to campaign for the arrest of former President Moi and Nicholas Biwott. JEFF KOINANGE In 2007 Briner-Mattern made lurid allegations against the broadcaster Jeff Koinange after claiming to have had a relationship with him, which he denied, that at least in part led to Koinange’s sacking from CNN. Marianne Briner-Mattern died of cancer at the age of 67 in December 2008 in Windisch, Switzerland. The ‘Registrar of People’ in Windisch, confirmed her death but said there had been no funeral. DOMENICO AIRAGHI Domenico Airaghi, the partner of Marianne Briner-Mattern in the non-existent company BAK that Dr Robert Ouko selected to help revive the Kisumu Molasses plant had his appeal for conviction of attempted extortion (Milan Court, March 1987) rejected in April 1991 and he was sentenced to two and a half years in prison and a fine of approximately $1,300. A year later in July 1992, an appeal court reduced his sentence as a result of which he did not have to serve a custodial sentence. FRANK SINATRA In an interview in Europea magazine in December 1987, Domenico Airaghi made allegations against the Italian actor Rossano Brazzi of involvement in money laundering and that he, Airaghi, had been approached to help launder money for the famous singer and actor Frank Sinatra, money that was allegedly gained from the casino earnings of the Italian-American mafia. VIOLENT CRIMINAL When later living in Spain, Airaghi was involved in several incidences of violent, criminal and improper behaviour. In 1996 he was alleged to have attacked a Chinese businesswoman in Marbella. Between 1991 and 1995 Airaghi lived with Briner-Mattern in a rented two-floor detached house in Marbella where he was alleged to have threatened to beat another woman, a member of staff and to have attacked a gardener, destroying his lawnmower. Over the next few years, Aiarghi and Briner-Mattern left a wake of unpaid bills, non-payment of rent and unpaid taxes after vacating or being evicted from various properties in Spain. Whilst living in one of these properties from which he was again eventually evicted Airaghi was alleged to have threatened to kill the manager of the apartment block. At his last known address, from which Airaghi was also evicted in February 1999, he had not paid rent for six months and left having stolen furniture and kitchen utensils. His rented car was also repossessed at which point it was discovered his driving licence was forged. Attempting to delay one eviction Airaghi produce falsified documents to confuse the authorities. Airaghi was also accused of embezzling funds from an insurance office and from a group of Chinese restaurant owners. Company registry documents in Spain suggest that Airaghi was still alive in 2009 but his whereabouts since then are unknown. If still alive he would now be 83 years of age.