Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana risks being isolated for opposing the Building Bridges Initiative rallies. The second-term governor is facing rebellion from close allies and Wiper supporters after he said he will not allow Wiper party to hold a BBI rally at Unoa grounds in Wote town. The party that sponsored Kibwana’s second term in office had planned a BBI rally at the county headquarters but called it off following the death of retired President Daniel Arap Moi. “We have called off the rally following the death of former President Moi but the party will announce a new date for the rally after his burial,” said Wiper party vice chairman Mutula Kilonzo Junior. However, Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana said he will not allow the rally to be held anywhere in the county saying the organisers intended to spoil his name and that of his administration. Kibwana claimed that Wiper party leaders were planning to hold the rally to malign his government ahead of the 7th annual Devolution conference set to be held in March. “What I am telling the Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka is that we have had a BBI rally here in Wote and the other one in Kitui town. If he plans to hold another one, let him go and do it elsewhere,” Kibwana told reporters at Unoa grounds. Since then, Mutua has been seen with Kalonzo in different events. Kibwana’s threat to block Kalonzo Musyoka from holding BBI rally in Makueni has left the ward representatives confused and only the former MCA s and those nominated by Wiper reacting. Former Majority leader Francis Muso and former whip in the previous county assembly, Jackson Ngovi, dared Kibwana to interrupt any rally called by Kalonzo in the devolved zone. “We are telling Kibwana that Makueni is not his property and any BBI rally that will be planned in the county will be peaceful. If he dares to disrupt it, then he should be arrested and charged in a court of law,” said Muso. Nominated MCAs Albunus Wambua, Magdalene Mulwa and Linnet Mbula said Kibwana should have resigned long time ago since he has been disrespecting his party boss. Mbula said Kibwana has no powers to stop other leaders from holding public rallies in Makueni while Mulwa asked him to keep off the Wiper party affairs if he was not interested. “If the governor was a man enough, let him resign and seek a fresh mandate from the people of Makueni,” said Mulwa. Governor Kibwana’s announcement makes him appear as the only leader from Ukambani going against the Building Bridges Initiative. His counterparts governors Alfred Mutua (Machakos) and Charity Ngilu (Kitui) have heeded the call by Jubilee’s point man in the region to speak with one voice and unite behind Kalonzo.