 Meru has the highest number of cancer cases after Nairobi, according to data at Kenyatta National Hospital. Five per cent of all cancer cases seen at the facility comes from Meru. It is perhaps because of this state of affairs that the county government organised the first mountain race in Africa last Saturday to raise funds for Meru Cancer Institute to be based at the county's Level Five hospital. Governor Kiraitu Murungi said during the Mt Kenya Running Championship at the School of Adventure and Leadership on the foot on the foot of Mt Kenya that his administration will employ extra oncologists and nurses trained on cancer management to ease the suffering of patients. Money and resources will be channelled to research on cervical, breast and prostate cancers in the county, Kiraitu said. “The screening will be done daily. We will spend funds on chemotherapy and upgrade radiotherapy. This will reduce the expenses incurred by poor people who die due to lack of even transport,” he said. The Keep the Doctor Away mountain race was attended by among others Kisumu first couple Anyang' and Dorothy Nyong’o, Makueni First Lady Nazi Kivutha, Meru First Lady Priscilla Murungi and Nyandarua First Lady Ann Kimemia. The others were European Union and UN envoys as well as representatives of Kenyan and British armies. Kiraitu commended runners, volunteers, sponsors and fans for the success of the event. Purity Gitonga from Kibirichia won the women’s 12km race and took home Sh500,000. The men's race was won by Emanuel Bor from Nandi. Nyong’o, himself a cancer survivor,  praised Kiraitu for organising the first such fete in the country. Athletics Kenya chairman Jackson Tuwei said the run will be an annual event listed in the national athletics calendar. The anti-cancer campaign had started on Wednesday last week when county first ladies launched a cancer clinic at Meru Level 5 Hospital. The clinic was financed by Kenyan County First Ladies Association and Roche Kenya Ltd. The first ladies emphasized the need for residents to eat healthy foods and to exercise. They should also be screened regularly.      