Tension is high in Baringo South subcounty after bandits shot dead three brothers at Mairo Hills along the Mochongoi-Chemorongion-Marigat road on Friday. National Police Reservist Solomon Keitany and his two brothers Simon Keitany and David Chemjor Kipng'eno were killed in the attack. The three were reportedly riding a motorcycle to Marigat town after a family meeting at their deserted Arabal home when they were fired at around 4.30pm. “They were ambushed and shot dead on the spot at close range by AK47-wielding bandits,” Arabal chief William Koech said. Marigat OCPD Benjolif Munuve confirmed the killings, saying upon receiving information his officers followed the assailants in vain as they vanished into the thick bushes towards Lokum Kum in Ilchamus ward. “We wonder if these are cattle rustlers or thugs because they did not attempt to drive away a single animal from the scene,” Munuve said. The officer said they were still pursuing the culprits and urged the residents to remain calm. Mochongoi MCA Kipruto Kimosop, his Marigat counterpart Nickson Lemlem, Reuben Chepsongol (Bartabwa) and Richard Cheserem (Saimo-Soi) condemned the incident. “This is no longer a cattle raid as it used to be. It has manifested itself clearly that some people are being funded to expand boundaries by scaring and displacing people,” Kimosop said. Two weeks ago suspected bandits ambushed and shot dead 22-year-old boda boda rider Sammy Chepkok at Kobol along Kagir-Lemuyek-Loruk-Marigat road in Baringo North subcounty. “This was an innocent young man who had just resettled his family after fleeing a previous fatal bandits attack,” Chepsongol said. Residents have been ambushed, injured, stripped and robbed of  their properties since June last year without a single arrest or more police officers being deployed to patrol the area. “This is total sabotage by the government and we need to be told if we are really in Kenya or a different country,” Chemoe resident Richard Chepchomei said. Last week, Rift Valley regional coordinator Gorge Natembeya said the government will pursue the bandits and arrest them to face justice. The killings occurred two years after area MP Charles Kamuren offered to resettle his people in parts of Arabal, Mukutani, Sirata and Chemorongio who were displaced by the bandits in 2005.