The Kenya Ports Authority management has been asked to place a public notice in local dailies concerning the transportation and clearance of transit cargo. Last month, Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia directed all transit cargo to be cleared from the Naivasha Inland Container Depot. However,  the directive was quietly lifted and it is now optional for importers to use the Naivasha ICD. Transporters, importers, clearing agents and Mombasa local leaders say they will not take word of mouth as they want the message communicated properly and published in the media. On Monday, Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir, his Likoni counterpart Mishi Mboko led the Kenya Transporters Association, Kenya International Freight and Warehousing Association (Kifwa), Muslim for Human Rights (Muhuri), Haki-Africa and the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry-Mombasa chapter in discussions on the stalemate at the port of Mombasa. “We have today agreed, during a meeting with KPA management, that transportation and clearance of cargo from the Port of Mombasa to Naivasha is optional,” MP Nassir said. “KPA has also agreed to place a paid-up advert in the media to clarify the issue.” Speaking after a two-hour closed-door meeting with KPA management, Nassir said moving forward, they will also come up with legislation to safeguard  importers and transporters. “We want to look for a long-term solution. We do not want to be reactive, but rather pro-active. Moving forward, we will need to come up with policies and legislation to tackle all these issues,” he said. KTA chief executive officer Dennis Ombok said they remain optimistic that all the issues they have deliberated on will be resolved. “We are waiting to see the content of that advert. We are hopeful that things will be okay,” Ombok said. The Likoni MP said there was a breakdown in communication. “We were told that the directive of clearing transit cargo in Naivasha had been reversed, but the transporters and clearing agents were not aware. We are glad that KPA will place an advert to amply capture the true position,” she said. The others present included Muhuri chairperson Khelef Khalifa, Haki Africa officials and KNCCI Mombasa chair Mustapha Ramadhan.  - mwaniki fm 