A section of Mt Kenya politicians on Wednesday held a meeting over the current standoff in the Senate over the revenue sharing formula. The MPs are said to have received a report from Nakuru Senator Suzan Kihika and her Laikipia counterpart John Kinyua on the developments of the debate. In attendance were Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, Kandara MP Alice Wahome, Tharaka Nithi women representative Beatrice Nkatha, Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri and Ndia MP George Kariuki. "We have deliberated at length and looked at various options which we shall present to our members for ratification," one of the MPs said. He added, "The Executive Committee is highly optimistic that wisdom and patriotism shall prevail in this matter and that the nation shall reach a just and fair settlement of the issues at hand, for the prosperity of all regions and the unity of the nation". This comes after the Senate on Tuesday shot down the disputed revenue sharing formula proposed by Irungu Kang'ata (Murang'a). Kangata, also the Majority Chief whip, had sought to amend the report by the Finance and Budget Committee to push forward the commencement date of the formula. The committee has proposed the new formula takes effect in 2021-22, but Kangata wanted it to commence in 2022-23. This was seen as a strategy to entice those opposing the formula to endorse it. Earlier, Finance and Budget Committee chairman Charles Kibiru (Kirinyaga) made a case for the disputed formula. While moving the motion, Kibiru urged his colleagues to approve the panel's recommendation, arguing that it was arrived at after thorough consultation with several stakeholders. "We need to shift our gear from saying who gets what. This county is ours. We should ourselves, as a Senate, tonight question if we want this county to move forward. We have had over 20 simulations in the Committee," he said . He said the Senate should approve the formula and push for more allocations to the counties to ensure no county is left behind "From where we sit, the minimum that should be taken to counties should not be less than sh350 million,'" he said. Deputy President William Ruto in his sentiments had said the ongoing revenue formula debate is unnecessarily divisive. Ruto said the Constitution envisages fair and equitable sharing of all our resources and challenged Parliament to play its rightful role in the process. "The legislature must as per its mandate structure a win-win formula that is sensitive to proposals made without hurting any county. Inawezakana," the DP tweeted.