 Taita Taveta MCAs affiliated to Nasa on Tuesday ousted Majority leader Jason Tuja in a renewed war over the 2020-21 budget. The MCAs unanimously voted to replace Tuja with Rong’e MCA Harris Keke during a party meeting held at the assembly chamber. The Werugha MCA is accused of opposing the passing of county budget and falling to defend members in the key decision. “Members had met to deliberate on the anticipated Building Bridges Initiative report among other issues concerning the majority side. Change of house leadership was also among the agenda,” Chala MCA Daniel Nguzo told the Star on phone. The motion was moved by Majority Whip Ibrahim Juma and seconded by Joyce Mwangoji (nominated). Members claimed that Tuja was against the passing of the budget, a move that could have sparked a dispute with the executive similar to last year’s. A budget stalemate that rocked the two arms of government saw a near dissolution of the county government. In the new changes, Juma was voted as Deputy Majority leader while his post was taken by Mbololo MCA Godffrey Mwambi. Initially, Mwambi was Deputy Majority Whip before he was replaced by Mwangoji. Twenty-one out of 33 members are Nasa-affiliated. However, Nguzo revealed that he will be moving a proposal to remove Wiper MCAs from the Majority side. “Last month, their party signed a coalition with the Jubilee Party and they now belong to the minority. We shall soon take them where they belong,” the Trade committee chairman said. He said the shift will pave way for leadership shake-up in the minority. In his defence, the ousted leader said due process was not followed during the passing of the budget citing a rush. He said members were coaxed and bribed to vote him out. He blames his woes on Governor Granton Samboja. “Members were not given time to read and scrutinise the budget before passing it. I still hold the view that due process was not followed,” Tuja said. He was conspicuously missing on Friday when Samboja signed the budget. Majority of ward reps attended the event outside the governor’s office. The outspoken MCA, who comes from Samboja’s Werugha backyard, insisted that he will not relent on fighting for the rights of residents.  Edited by R.Wamochie