The High Court in Nakuru has released a man sentenced to 15 years for defiling a 16-year-old girl and making her pregnant in 2018. Justice Joel Ngugi quashed the conviction on July 4 because of inconsistencies in the testimonies of the complainant and her cousin. Ngugi said no DNA test was carried out to clear up doubts about paternity. “It seems readily obvious the best way to dispel any reasonable doubts whether or not the complainant was defiled by the appellant was to conduct a DNA test to establish the paternity,” Ngugi ruled. Eric Kemei, was convicted at the Molo chief magistrate’s court of defiling the child on four occasions during the daytime at his one-room shop. Kemei appealed, saying the charges were trumped-up because he had a dispute with the girl’s cousin who had a debt for items she had bought on credit at his shop. The girl lived with her cousin. The complainant had testified that in February 2018, she had gone to Kemei’s shop to purchase a biro pen when he locked the shop and defiled her. The girl testified she was again defiled when she went to buy sugar. She said she tried to refuse but he forced her and threatened to kill her if she told anyone. Both times he did not use a condom, she said. “I decided to tell my cousin when it happened the third time. Kemei had asked me to take some items to a teacher at my school and at about 4pm, he locked me up and defiled me,” she told the court. That evening she told her cousin, who is a tailor. The cousin told her teacher who advised her to report to the chief. However, the girl said during April holidays, Kemei pulled her from the road one day at 4pn, took her to his shop and again defiled her. She said she again told her cousin and this time they went to Londiani police station. They were referred to Londiani hospital where she was examined and found to be pregnant. The cousin testified that she compelled the girl to talk when she started showing her pregnancy. She said that around February 2018 the girl started having morning sickness. In April, she noticed the girl looked pregnant. “I sat her down and asked her to tell her the truth. She said Eric had locked her in his shop when she went to buy a pencil and had sex with her,” she said. The complainant said she had been defiled on four separate occasions and she then took her to the hospital. She claimed Kemei had tried to give her money to procure an abortion but she refused. The girl gave birth in October 2018. In his defence, Kemei said the time of the pregnancy should have indicated he was not the father. He complained no DNA tests were done to prove paternity. Justice Ngugi said he found the complainant’s testimony unpersuasive and said it didn’t meet the very high threshold of a criminal conviction. “The story told by the complainant about what happened in the aftermath of the defilement is markedly different than that told by the guardian. These stories invite questions as to their credibility,” he said. The judge also said the circumstances under which the crime was committed appear implausible, namely during the day. (Edited by V. Graham)