President Uhuru Kenyatta on Thursday warned against the misuse of funds meant for the ‘Kazi Mtaani’ initiative. While meeting National Government Administration Officers at KICC, the head of state challenged them to ensure the money channeled towards the programme is used effectively. Uhuru further pledged full support for the nationwide youth initiative aimed at cushioning many youth who have lost jobs as a result of the current Covid-19 pandemic. The President is expected to announce the launch of the second phase of the initiative on July 6. The initiative has been allocated Sh10 billion and will run for six months in all the 47 counties. About 300,000 youth are to benefit from the programme. Treasury CS Ukur Yattani while presenting the 2020-21 Budget said the Sh10 billion  will go a long way in ensuring the vulnerable youth who have lost jobs due to the pandemic can put food on the table. "Currently we have engaged 26,000 youth in the pilot programme as we seek to officially roll out the project," he said. The programme was launched by the President on April 25, targeting youths in slums from eight counties. The programme was first rolled out in 28 slums in Kiambu, Nairobi, Mombasa, Kwale, Nakuru, Mandera, Kilifi and Kisumu. The country has a huge number of youths who are unemployed and the number has increased after the coronavirus hit the nation. Many industries were forced to reduce their workers and others closed. The CS added that the country's economy is projected to grow at a reduced rate of 2.5 per cent. This is due to invasion of desert locusts and flooding as well as the Covid-19 pandemic. "Mr Speaker it is evident that most aspects of our lives have been disrupted with the realities of the pandemic, it is from this point that we target these youth with an aim of stimulating the economy while safeguarding livelihoods," Yatani said. He said the pandemic has resulted in a slow economic activities while increasing the public expenditure across all sectors. "We are hopeful that the rapid economic stimulus we have out in place will address some of the high poverty levels and unemployment among the youth," Yatani said.