National 400m champion Mercy Oketch says she has no regrets quitting football for the track. “I used to play as a winger but we used to reach Sub County level. However, since I decided to focus on athletics, I have even graced the East Africa games in Arusha,” she told the Star on Sunday. The Form Four student at Mogonga PAG High School in Kisii County added: “All my attention is now on the track. Playing football as a number 11 was enjoyable but now athletics is my life. The decision to drop football was easy because we didn’t have a chance of even playing at county level.” Oketch was looking forward to defend her titles at regional and national levels but schools were closed and all public gatherings suspended due to the coronavirus pandemic. “Before the pandemic, I had already qualified for the regionals as number two after I was beaten by Linda Kageha. I was targeting to beat her at the regionals and nationals. My other target was to go for gold during the East Africa games because last year, I won bronze in Tanzania,” added the diminutive sprinter. She has also been identified as a prospect to represent Kenya at the World Under 20 championships that were scheduled for Nairobi as from July 7-12 but the event was postponed indefinitely due to the coronavirus pandemic. World Athletics is expected to announce new dates for the event this month. “I wanted to make my international debut at the event. I was disappointed because the event was postponed. However, that has not broken my heart because we have been assured that the event will take place,” she added. She added that 'working from home' is not easy following the closure of schools. "I have a program from the coaches but it's not easy to follow because sometimes you have some chores to do at home," said the athlete who hails from Migori County. She looks up to World Under 18 400m silver medalist and Africa Under 20 champion Mary Moraa. “She was a student at Mogonga and that gives us inspiration that we can also make it. She has represented Kenya at junior and senior level. She encourages and inspires us,” she said. She also hailed former Mogonga principal Haron Onchong’a and coach Valentine Orare for supporting her.