Twenty-eight health workers have contracted Covid-19 in Mombasa county. Dr Abidan Mwachi, Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists' Union Coast secretary general, said some of those who were positive for the coronavirus had recovered. “Several health workers, including doctors and nurses who contracted the disease are still undergoing treatment, but some have already recovered and resumed work,” Mwachi said. Mombasa county has about 200 doctors. Last month, the Covid-19 testing centre at the Coast Provincial General Hospital was shut down for several weeks after two laboratory technicians tested positive. Consequently, samples from Mombasa had to be transported to Nairobi and Kilifi Kemri testing centres. As of Wednesday, no official communication had been issued about the resumption of testing of Covid-19 in the region. Mombasa has the second-highest Covid-19 burden with over 1,700 positive cases. Health chief officer Dr Khadija Shikelly could not be reached for a comment on the exact number of infected doctors. In Nairobi, the pandemic has devastated street families, who have for long depended on begging for money, food or doing menial jobs to cater for their needs. “Directives such as the closure of hotels, people staying at home, night curfews and shutting down of many non-essential businesses have greatly affected us,” Joe, a 14-year-old street boy said. Joe said the cashless transactions advocated for during the pandemic are the biggest blow to street families. “Mobile cash transfers are helpful to all but street families that neither have a bank account nor a phone. We depend on loose change from well-wishers who despite shrinking in number, no longer have hard cash,” he said. After a day of begging for money and food outside a hotel in Nairobi town, Joe spends his nights on a makeshift bed of card boxes under a staircase at Uhuru Park. “The virus has made things very difficult. Well-wishers now say they do not have cash and want to send money through mobile money yet most of us do not have phones,” he adds. Joe’s friend Boss says the closure of most eateries and people working from home has left them hungry and dismayed. “We hear we are supposed to be wearing masks and keeping a social distance but our greatest challenge is on the social distance. We have to sleep together to generate heat,” Boss says. Protection will only come from God, the boys say. The government rolled out a Covid-19 emergency response fund to cushion wananchi from the effects of the pandemic but no help has reached them. “We street people are the neediest as most of us ran away from our homes because of poverty, neglect and child abuse,” Joe says. The 2018 national census of street children and families put their population at 46,639. Seven in every 10 street dwellers are male while three are female. (edited by o. owino)