Nasa affiliates are eyeing parliamentary leadership slots occupied by Wiper MPs afters their party leader Kalonzo Musyoka said they are ditching the opposition coalition. Kalonzo said Tuesday that he is working on a Nasa exit plan and will soon ink a deal with President Uhuru Kenyatta’s ruling Jubilee. Wiper’s National Executive Committee has given the party’s secretariat the go-ahead to convene a national delegates meeting to ratify the decision. “The National Executive Council of the Wiper Democratic Movement-Kenya held a virtual meeting via Zoom today (Tuesday) and resolved that a Special National Delegates Conference be convened as soon as possible to ratify the NEC resolution concerning the envisaged Coalition,” Wiper secretary general Judith Sijeny said. The seats held by Wiper appear set to be a new battlefield between the constituent parties. In the National Assembly, Kathiani MP Rober Mbui is the deputy Minority leader while his Borabu counterpart Ben Momanyi sits in the Parliamentary Service Commission courtesy of Nasa. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo is the Minority whip — a position he will have to let go if the coalition deal materialises. On Thursday, ANC deputy party leader Ayub Savula said they deserve the three slots being held by Wiper. “If they sign the deal we will formally write to the Registrar of Political Parties and take the seats they are holding. ODM will hold their positions; ANC will replace Wiper because ODM has both minority leader and minority whip,” the Lugari MP said. But ODM dismissed ANC's push for the seats, accusing the Musalia Mudavadi-led party of flip-flopping and being uncommitted to the Nasa agenda. ODM national chairman John Mbadi who doubles as the minority leader said they have enough members who can take up the positions that will be left vacant. “ANC has not demonstrated good behaviour of partnership. They are always not supportive of our course. How do you trust them? Who do we trust even to give the position like my deputy?” Mbadi asked. “They are the ones who have been sometimes talking like they are with Ruto [Deputy President William Ruto], sometimes they are not. You must take a stand. We have so many people in ODM who are representing various regions who can take up the positions. I don’t think ANC should claim the positions.” But Ford Kenya’s Chris Wamalwa (Kiminini) insisted that ODM is in breach of the law by holding on to the Minority seats when they are working with Jubilee. “You cannot have your cake and eat it. ODM is in bed with Jubilee. They should relinquish their positions. You cannot be part of the government and provide oversight,” Wamalwa said. Wamalwa said Ford Kenya wants Nasa to be dissolved. “These people who have moved to cooperation must move to the government side. We want to take those positions so that we provide check and balances. They should stop the gluttonous behaviour of being in the government and providing oversight.” (edited by o. owino)