 Health workers' unions are now demanding that members aged 55 and above be given leave until the coronavirus pandemic is contained. In their demands ahead of today’s summit organised by President Uhuru Kenyatta to review the Covid-19 containment measures, union officials also want the government to hire 10,000 more health workers to replace those who get infected and to handle the expected surge in infections. Speaking in Nairobi on Sunday, the unions said additional staff will enable them to be able to provide home-based essential care for the vulnerable population to reduce their risk of infection. The officials included representatives from the Kenya Union of Clinical Officers, the Kenya National Union of Nurses, the Kenya National Union of Laboratory Officers, the Kenya National Union of Pharmaceutical Technologists, the Kenya Health Professionals Society and the Kenya Union of Nutritionists and Dietitians. They said 531 health workers have so far been infected while in the line of duty with seven having died from Covid-19. “As the summit sits tomorrow (Monday), we wish to bring this challenge to their attention being the highest decision making organ in Kenya. We implore on them to look at these challenges and prioritise their solutions to ensure our welfare as we battle this virus,” Kenya Union of Clinical Officers secretary-general George Gibore said. He added; “Heath workers have borne the weight of this pandemic. It has affected all aspects of their lives psychologically, emotionally, and economical as they struggle to protect their families, care for their patients as well as support their loved ones who may have lost livelihoods following the outbreak.” The unions’ leadership conducted a joint survey between July 23 and 25 to assess the infection prevention control among healthcare workers in both private and public facilities. It was established that only 24.9 per cent of healthcare workers have had a two-day training on Covid-19. The study also established that 72.5 per cent of those performing aerosolising procedures do not have proper PPEs and have no access to N95 masks whereas 74.4 per cent are anxious that they may not be using their PPEs correctly. “This explains the surging numbers of infections among healthcare workers,” Gibore said. Some 64.5 per cent reported experiencing burnout due to increased workload while 82.4 per cent feel their pay is not commensurate with the risk at the workplace. The unions want an amendment of the WIBA Act to accommodate the provision of life insurance and compensation for ill workers who survive or die from Covid-19 be included in the next 14 days. They said the Covid-19 allowance which was awarded by the President to motivate the frontline health care workers does not serve the risk purpose. “The allowance is curbed at three months only ending June 30, while the outbreak will last beyond that and probably even get worse where workers will have to bear the weight,” Gibore said. “We wonder how many of us will have to die for the government to treat this as a matter of urgency.”  Edited by P.O