Two-time Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association (KSSSA) 10,000m walk race silver medalist Hemstone Wanyonyi believes a chat with two-time Africa 20km champion Samuel Gathimba can help transform him into a future star. Wanyonyi has been playing second fiddle to World under 18 10,000m bronze medalist Dominic Ndigiti for two years and was hoping to step his gear this year but, unfortunately, his dream has been delayed by the coronavirus pandemic. Now, he believes meeting his idol, Gathimba, will help him not only clinch the schools title for the first time, but also be in the frame for the world junior title when the postponed World Under 20 in Nairobi are called. Gathimba, he said, has been a good example due to his success in the not-so-embraced event, raising the flag in major championships. Gathimba has represented the country in almost all global events including Olympic Games, Commonwealth Games, World Championships, All Africa Games as well as Africa Senior Athletics Championships. “I want Gathimba to train me. He has good walking techniques that I want him to train share and make me a champion just like him. If you are trained by a champion then chances are high that you can become a champion,” said Wanyonyi. Wanyonyi, a Form Four student at Ortum Boys in West Pokot County won a silver medalist at the 2018 and 2019 KSSSA games, losing to Ndigiti on both occasions. “I want him (Gathimba) to guide me to win a medal at the championships because I am capable. He is so good in his styles and that is what I want to emulate and become a champion. Through him, I know I will make,” added Wanyonyi. Gathimba, a Nyeri-born Kenya Prisons Service warden, won the African title two times, in 2016 and 2018 in South Africa and Nigeria respectively in addition to winning silver in 2014 in Marrakech, Morocco. In addition to his dream to meet Gathimba, Wanyonyi is also hopeful that the  West Pokot County will speed up in the rehabilitation of stadiums with the county to give him and fellow sportspersons a place to train. At the moment, he is forced to travel all the way to Kitale Stadium for training.