 Kisumu Industrialisation CEC Nery Achar will this week know whether he will keep his job when MCAs decide on his impeachment as Finance boss. Speaker Elisha Oraro said he will put the question on the matter on Tuesday after differing it last week after an adhoc committee report investigating the re-appointment of Achar was tabled in the House. Achar was impeached last year as Finance CEC, a decision he challenged in court. The case was dismissed in March this year. He, however, found his way back to the executive committee after Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o appointed him to the Energy and Industrialisation department. Oraro constituted an 11-member committee to find out if Achar lodged an appeal over his impeachment before the assembly starts the process of kicking him out for the second time. Presenting the adhoc committee report, chairman Jacktone Ogendo (Nyalenda) noted that Achar was not only impeached as Finance boss but was also suspended from holding any public office in the county. He said it was thus disrespectful to the assembly for the governor to transfer him to another docket. Ogendo said county secretary Godfrey Kigochi told the committee that he was aware that Achar was impeached and later redeployed to the industrialisation docket but had not received any communication from the courts informing him of a stay order in regard to the petition. He further stated that when they talked to acting county attorney Edris Omondi, they were told that Achar's presence in the committee was determined by "the political and legal elements". “He informed us that Achar ought not to be in office but requested us to be aware of other political factors that might have necessitated his re-deployment,” Ogendo told the assembly. The committee, however, recommended that Achar should be declared a persona non-grata in the county government, and the assembly ought to terminate any transactions with him. They also said the county government should be requested to show cause why he is still in office despite his impeachment. “That the EACC and other prosecutorial organs be invited to take up the matter and investigate the conduct of Achar when he was serving as the CEC Finance," the committee recommended. While debating on the matter, Koru MCA Julius Genga appealed to the assembly to help the county deliver its promise by letting Achar go. “We must redeem our image as an assembly and do our oversight role diligently. It is time the matter be implemented and be dispensed with,” Genga said “We will be counted as coward people who have coiled and 'bread eaters' if we don't stand firm for service delivery in Kisumu county,” he added. However, Kolwa Central MCA George Olwal questioned the assembly's capacity to enforce its orders. “The appointing authority is the governor and the backs stops with him. What if the appointing authority retains the same CEC again. The committee ought to have taken the bull by its horn,” he said South West MCA Eric Agola, who disassociated himself from the report, said the governor ought to have removed the CEC from office, not transferring him to another docket 