The Kilifi county government will this financial year spend Sh1 billion to tarmac and upgrade roads. Most of its 5,000-kilometre roads are rural areas. A similar amount was spent on infrastructure in the just-ended financial year. Roads, Transport and Public Works executive Josephat Mwatela said only a few kilometres of the road network are tarmacked and in urban centres with the rest being earth roads in rural areas. Prof Mwatela, who spoke in Kilifi on Friday, said the county government was focusing on rural roads improvement to enable farmers take their produce to the market in time. “Most of the agricultural products come from the rural areas and they must find market in urban centres. "This is not possible if the roads are impassable. Our people will be disadvantaged as their farm produce will rot before accessing the market, hence the reason to ensure good rural roads,” he said. Urban roads are mainly tarmacked and cabro-paved. This job has been completed on several roads in Malindi.  The drainage system in the tourism paradise is being attended to. “In Malindi we have done three kilometres of cabro roads from Tamani Jua. The job on this road will end at BP where it joins the Malindi-Mombasa highway. The road works will be concluded in the next two months,” Mwatela said. County road chief officer Kenneth Kazungu said Governor Amason Kingi's administration will this financial year tarmack 12 kilometres of new roads in Bamba, Mambrui, Mtepeni, Mtwapa and Jumba Ruins to attract more tourists. Several rural roads will be upgraded to bitumen standard. ''In Kilifi we have over 500 kilometres that will be upgraded to murram standards. All these are deliberate attempts by the county government to make sure that we improve the economy,'' Kazungu said. “Eight kilometres of Kilifi town roads have been tarmacked and some more in Mnarani and Kilifi town suburbs. In Mtwapa we have done about 10 kilometres. “We are not only focusing on the urban set-ups but also in the rural areas where the need for proper road network is paramount. Last week we launched a cabro road in Gongoni, Magarini. We have budgeted for the upgrading of several rual roads to bitumen standard this financial year,” he said. Malindi Town MCA David Kadenge said the infrastructure in Malindi town has changed for the better. “Malindi town is a world-renowned tourist destination. However, in yesteryears, poor road network hindered its development. That has now changed. The county government has done several roads to ease transport and open up the area for more development,” Kadenge said.  - mwaniki fm 