  Nairobi MCAs are calling on President Uhuru Kenyatta to save them from 'rogue' speaker Beatrice Elachi and restore order in the county assembly. The ward representatives say Elachi has been invoking the President's name to pass her own agenda in the house, hence the need to seek the intervention of the Head of State. Led by Hamza MCA Mark Ndung’u, the ward reps say Uhuru should intervene so there is a stable environment in the county assembly. They say stability is vital and will allow them the calmness required to draft legislation to support the operationalisation of the Nairobi Metropolitan Service. “We need your intervention, Mr President, because the person we pledged to support thinking she would restore sanity at the assembly is the one now causing chaos in Nairobi. When the speaker invokes your name, we all obey since it is the President but it has now come to our attention that she has become rogue," Ndung'u said on Thursday. He spoke at a press conference outside the assembly. he was with Dandora III MCA Charles Thuo. Elachi is also accused of flouting assembly standing orders and procedures and making decisions without consulting MCAs, a move that has fueled wrangles between the county assembly and NMS. “The issue of NMS being fought by some MCAs is neither here nor there but an assumption aimed at creating war amongst us. NMS has not said they are being fought by MCAs and neither has a member said they are opposing NMS,” Ndung’u said.   But Elachi dismissed claims that she was involved in illegalities and invoking the President's name to pursue her own agenda. “Not always do all the MCAs have to support matters in the house, since they have a right to refuse or support. I don’t evoke the President’s name but I remind them of the meeting we had in State House on NMs,” Elachi said. The speaker insisted that laws and procedures have been followed to the letter. “ As for Hon. Ndung’u, he should ask himself why each time he comes to the assembly, there must be chaos or maybe he is part of the team sent to come to sabotage assembly operations,” Elachi said. The Speaker has repeatedly gone on record saying 2020 is a year of change where there would be strict adherence to laws and procedures in the assembly.   On  Thursday, Dandora III MCA Charles Thuo accused Elachi of “illegally’ holding two special sittings in the last 10 days for the assembly to pass the Sessional Paper No.1 of the Policy Framework for the Revenue Collection and Management. Thuo said he had not requested the speaker to call for either of the meetings. Thuo maintains he is the Majority leader despite the Jubilee Party having reinstated Matopeni/Spring Valley MCA Abdi Guyo to the position. Thuo has refused to officially hand over to Guyo making the assembly leadership a complicated matter. However, an internal memo dated July 15, 2020, shows the Majority leader wrote to the speaker requesting a special sitting on Thursday June 16. “We have held two special sittings that were neither called by neither the leader of Majority nor Minority. The first sitting was held last week where the sessional paper was tabled and it was illegal because it was not requested through the procedures laid down,” Thuo said. He said such irregularities might expose the assembly to legal battles because people might go to court to challenge decisions made. But Elachi says the office of the Majority leader is an institution and not an individual. ‘The institution of the Majority leader is like the institution of a clerk or of the speaker. What the majority leader always forgets is that the Majority leader is not an individual person but an institution. That is why the standing orders are clear that when the Majority leader is not there, the deputy takes over and when he or she is not there the whip takes over,” Elachi said. The standings orders allow the speaker to call for a special sitting on the request of the leader of the Majority or that of the Minority in the house. The speaker on Thursday suspended Thuo for a week, citing his frequent interruptions of proceedings. “Majority leader as you are walking out, I have given you one week rest from today,” Elachi said on Thursday.  Hamza MCA Ndung'u said ward representatives will not accept being intimidated. Roysambu MCA Peter Warutere said “Kangaroo” meetings have become monotomous in the assembly and that ward reps will no longer be used as rubber stamps. “We are not here to be used as rubber-stamp and the MCAs who know that have kept away from the assembly. The ship is sinking fast because it has lost God’s favour," Warutere said. A second term MCA who sought anonymity said rules and procedures have been disregarded in the recent past. “The assembly has turned into an unlawful house where things are done without following the required procedures. Not everyone is happy with what is going on," the MCA said. The ward rep also questioned the suspension of the Majority leader. "Never have we had a speaker who can suspend a Majority leader from the assembly. With that only, you can tell that all is not well."  Edited by P.O