ODM leader Raila Odinga has disowned claims by Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka that they have a political deal for the ex-prime minister to support him in 2022. ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna in a statement to newsrooms slammed Kalonzo for being a dishonest man who wants to reap from where he did not sow. The Orange party spokesperson termed Kalonzo’s assertion as a continuation of his ‘kati kati’ brand of politics which has seen him remain undecided on serious political matters of national concern. “The Orange Democratic Movement is shocked by claims made by Hon. Stephen Kalonzo Musyoka that there exists a secret pact between him and our party Leader H.E. Raila Odinga that will see Raila support him in 2022. We wish to state categorically that no such deal exists,” Sifuna said. “We are however not surprised that Kalonzo is making those claims. It is typical of Mr Kalonzo's character as a two-faced treacherous character who is always whining while seeking to reap where he did not sow.” He was responding to remarks made by Kalonzo that he had a secret deal with Raila in 2017 and which was unknown to other Nasa principals. On Sunday, Kalonzo was quoted as saying that the secret pact will see the ODM leader support his 2022 presidential ambition. “The arrangement is between Raila and I and not with the other parties in Nasa. I am not free to talk about it because it is a highly confidential matter,” Kalonzo was quoted as saying. The Wiper boss’ remarks came barely a day after meeting ODM deputy Party leader and Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and Devolution CS Eugine Wamalwa. But Wiper secretary general Judith Sijeny said Kalonzo did not say the words attributed to him. Sijeny asked Sifuna to "tame their antagonistic grandstanding" that has been detrimental to ODM. ANC Deputy Party Leader and Lugari MP Ayub Savula also dismissed the secret Raila-Kalonzo pact as having no force since it was never deposited with the Registrar of Political Parties. He, however, acknowledged that two leaders had an informal agreement that was only meant to have Kalonzo play second fiddle to the ODM leader. “I remember when we were unveiling Raila as a presidential candidate, there was a protest from Kalonzo so we agreed that Kalonzo signs another agreement with Raila that Raila runs for one term then he (Raila) supports him (Kalonzo),” Savula said. “But that agreement was never deposited with the Registrar of Political Parties. So it is dead on arrival. It is a useless thing. It was never deposited anywhere.” Sifuna also accused the Wiper boss of contributing to the ‘death’ of Nasa by starving the opposition coalition of the finances from their lawmakers. “For a whole year after 2017 elections, ODM single-handedly financed the NASA Secretariat, including paying staff salaries. That was because Wiper and all the other NASA parties refused to submit the Ksh10,000 monthly payment of their elected leaders to finance the Secretariat. ODM had no option but to stop shouldering the burden.” 