The government has raised concerns over rising cases of Covid-19 cases in Nairobi. Health CAS Dr Mercy Mwangangi on Tuesday said in the past few days Nairobi has recorded a sharp rise in the number of positive cases and those succumbing to the disease. She said if Nairobians do not adhere to containment measures put in place, the numbers are likely going to surge. "The figures will keep rising and this should be a major concern for each one of us," she said. Her sentiments come a day after Nairobi alone recorded 12 fatalities to the disease. Mwangangi said as of Monday, Nairobi was leading with  5,705 cases, followed by Mombasa at 1,739 cases. Busia is third with 550 cases while Kiambu is fourth with 520 cases. Acting director General Public Health Dr. Patrick Amoth said so far 199 patients have been to the ICU since the first case was reported in March. Amoth said out this number, 90 have been discharged and 70 unfortunately succumbed. "We have 36 patients who are currently in the ICU out of whom 18 are on ventilators while 18 are on oxygen," Amoth said. Amoth said it costs Sh71,000 per day to have patients in ICU. Mwangangi further said the ministry is concerned with the increasing trend of stigmatisation of Covid-19 patients. She said it has noted a trend where photos and videos of patients are taken and shared on social media, a situation that is affecting those who have contracted the disease. "It is evident that people have resorted to stigmatising those who have contracted the disease. They are sharing and profiling these patients and this is not adding any value to the efforts to combat the disease," she said. Mwangangi said the disease is just like any other and does not spare even the high and mighty in the society. "Be reminded that getting infected by this disease is not a crime, we must take care of each other. Today it is you that is recording and I wonder how you would feel if you were recorded tomorrow when you get infected," she said. The CAS said the society's approach to the whole objective will go a long way in preventing further spread. So far Kenya has reported 10,791 cases after 497 more people tested positive in the last 24 hrs. Five others succumbed, bringing the total number of fatalities to 202.