A majority of people in Nairobi's informal settlements want President Uhuru Kenyatta to lift the cessation of movement order, to allow travel in and out of the city. Out of the 579 people interviewed by pollster Trend and Insights For Africa (Tifa), 59 per cent said they want the restrictions ended so people can resume their economic activities, even if this means Covid-19 infections will surge. However, 39 per cent want the curfew and movement restrictions to remain regardless of whether it will continue to damage the economy, and consign more people to poverty. Before the June 620 presidential address, 59 per cent of the respondents in a past poll were hopeful that President Uhuru Kenyatta would lift the cessation movement in and out of Mombasa and Nairobi. However, the order was extended for another 30 days, which aret to expire on Monday. The Tifa study, released on Sunday, suggests 63 per cent of police officers use unjustifiable force to implement the restrictions. The study says 32 per cent of the people interviewed said the force used by police was justified to enforce curfew in their locality. The study is titled 'Covid-19 Global Pandemic in Nairobi’s Low-Income Areas: Effectiveness of Prevention Measures, Curfew Compliance and Enforcement, Nairobi Area Travel Restrictions'. It was conducted between June 2 to 15 in Nairobi's low income areas of Huruma, Kibera, Mathare, Korogocho, Mukuru kwa Njenga and Kawangware. Since the dusk- to-dawn curfew began on March 27, , human rights activists have been calling for the end to violence by police. Videos circulated on social media revealed police brutality, which triggered protests and condemnation by leaders. The research, funded by the Canadian High Commission in Kenya, indicated more than 30 people have been injured. At least 24 per cent  of people interviewed between June 2 and 15, said they know some who has been arrested for curfew violation. In addition, some Kenyans are said to be unaware of some safety measures against the spread of Covid-19 such as proper handwashing, despite the government reminding them on a daily through the media. The Tifa study indicates that 46 per cent of the respondents were aware of wearing face masks as a safety measure. Forty one per cent said they were aware of the night curfew while 37 per cent said they knew of the cessation of movement in Nairobi as among policies to curb the spread of Covid-19. However, hand washing, sanitising and cleaning surfaces were the least mentioned mechanisms at one per cent. “By far, the measures imposed/advised by government, of which most respondents are aware are: mask-wearing in public, the night curfew, the Nairobi area travel restrictions, and 'keeping distant when in public places,” the report reads. (Edited by J. Muchangi)