The proposed Sh35 billion Malewa dam continues to generate opposition, with stakeholders around Lake Naivasha calling for an independent environmental audit. This emerged during a heated consultative meeting between government officials and the stakeholders in a Naivasha hotel. Two weeks ago, the government embarked on a second bid to woo the investors to support the controversial dam whose construction is funded by the World Bank. Lake Naivasha Water Resource Users Association chairman Enock Kiminta said they had given a raft of conditions to be met before the project starts. Kiminta noted that stakeholders were concerned over arm-twisting by government officials to support the dam to be constructed in Kinangop, Nyandarua county. “We want to be involved in the EIA, get more information about the dam and seek scientific data and studies on water balance in this region,” he said. He added that during the meeting, the state had assured them the water would be used in Naivasha, Gilgil and Ol Kalou towns alone. “The biggest fear is that diverting water to fill this dam will lead to the death of Lake Naivasha, which employs thousands and contributes billions to the Exchequer,” he said. But Central Rift Valley Water Works Development Agency CEO Hosea Kipyegon defended the dam, saying they are conducting a feasibility study. He said the dam — whose construction will take three to four years — was viable and will have minimal effects on the lake and communities surrounding it. “The dam will come in handy in controlling the current flooding that has been witnessed in Lake Naivasha, forcing tens of families to relocate,” he said. Kipyegon said the government was keen to work with the stakeholders to address the emerging concerns before the project starts. Agency chairman Stephen Njung’e said once endorsed, the dam would solve the perennial water shortage in the three towns. He said it is one of the Vision 2030 projects, adding that the government could not achieve the Big Four agenda without enough water supply. “This project is very crucial to the economy of this country and we are keen to engage all the stakeholders so that they can approve it,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori