Top Health ministry officials disregarded legal advice from the attorney general on Sh63 billion medical kits programme, a Senate committee heard on Wednesday. Former Attorney General Githu Muigai told the committee that Cabinet Secretary James Macharia and Principal Secretary Khadijah Kassachoon ignored his advice to submit the contracts to his office for review. The multimillion-shilling contracts were signed in 2015. The ad hoc committee is investigating the now controversial Managed Equipment Service  programme. Macharia has since moved to the Transport docket in the same capacity. Muigai said the ministry had not submitted the final contracts to his office for review by the time he left the civil service in 2018. He told the Isiolo Senator Fatuma Dullo-led committee that he only authorised the signing of the pre-contracts, a ceremonial event at State House to show the parties’ willingness and intention to enter into a binding contract. Thereafter, the ministry was expected to enter into further negotiations and send the documents to the AG’s office for review before signing the final and binding contracts. “The greenlight was for the ministry to go back and negotiate the final contract. This meant they will not sign them; they will negotiate with the vendors. After they finish negotiating, they would send them to me for review,” he said. Senators Stewart Madzayo (Kilifi), Enock Wambua (Kitui) and Moses Wetang'ula (Bungoma) demanded to know what exactly the office of the AG wanted to verify yet the there was an express letter from him allowing the ministry to sign the contracts on February 6. Wetang'ula: Where in this letter is your express wording that what was being signed on February of 6 was a ceremony? You have clearly indicated that they sign the contracts. Wambua: What are you saying you want to review? Isn’t the contract concluded? And the question we are asking is, what are you reviewing? It is finalised. It is concluded. It is signed. What are you reviewing? Muigai explained that he only authorised the signing of the pre-contracts, a ceremonial event held at State House to show the parties’ willingness and intention to enter into a binding contract. He said his work as the chief government legal adviser was not to supervise ministries and its agencies but offer legal advice to his client, the government. “On the February 6, they signed the pre-contract. The one intended to show that they would be contracting. The one that would be caught on camera and so on.” Muigai: They never complied with that. This shone the spotlight on Macharia and Kassachon. “The AG is an adviser, it is very difficult to convert him to supervisor of government. He advises ministries to please do this, ensure this is done and so on. You can go there to make sure they have done it,” an agitated Muigai stated. Asked, whether Macharia and Kassachoon violated the law by going ahead to execute contracts on behalf of government without his involvement, Muigai was non-committal, only referring the nine member panel to the ministry’s mysterious records. Wetangula: Failure to comply with law is itself an irregularity. Did the ministry violate the law? Muigai: They did not violate the law, they only failed to follow the normal and standard procedures. They only bungled clear guidelines by not bringing the contracts for sign off by the State Law Office. The MES contract was initially to cost Sh38 billion but this was  later varied to Sh63 billion. Muigai said that upon realising that the MES contracts had been duly executed, the State Law Office (on his own volition) wrote to the ministry contesting the manner in which the contracts were  implemented. “We challenged the contracting procedure of the ministry. Though, I have been away from the State Law Office, we took great exception, despite the ministry making a case that entire medical scheme was to collapse with letters of support from the office,” he said.  - mwaniki fm