This is a crucial time for Manchester United forward Jesse Lingard. Manager Ole Gunner Solskjaer has not started Lingard since New Year’s Day and he has not scored since December 2018. Solskjaer, I am told, has lost confidence in the academy graduate and Lingard’s tie-up with agent Mino Raiola has further complicated his future because the agent and United do not have a good relationship. He was not feeling well enough to train prior to the Sheffield United win last week and was not included in the squad. However, he was on the bench for the previous match against Tottenham although he remained unused and did not even complete a warm-up routine. When contacted,  Solskjaer would not be drawn into a conversation and would only say, “We will see what the future holds for him.” Not very encouraging for a player who is out of contract next year and has dropped even further down the selection order since the arrival of Bruno Fernandes who has become an automatic first team choice. Liverpool players get their day off! During their wild title winning celebrations last Saturday at a seaside hotel in Formby near Liverpool, wing back Andy Robertson joked about getting some time off from training. He said, “We tried to get the boss to give us a few days off. Give him a couple more beers and we’ll probably get two days off!” It must have worked because the boys were allowed an extra day of rest before returning to the Melwood training centre. And we spotted a player who has been absent from Liverpool since January. Xherdan Shaqiri hasn’t played recently and was not in any of the photographs of the team. However, he returned to training on Monday and gave a big thumbs up as he joined his triumphant teammates. Also at training was Bobby Firmino sporting a new hair cut which looked like he was influenced by the TV series Game of Thrones! Shaved at the sides and cut into a long point at the back, the new cut was complimented by having his hair dyed copper red! Why it is going wrong at Sheffield I travelled up to Sheffield earlier this week to discover what has gone wrong with the Blades’ efforts to gain a Europa or Champion’s League qualification. I spoke confidentially with some of my contacts and their information was very interesting. The opinion for what is blunting Sheffield’s push up the table is that before the virus break, Sheffield played effectively by disrupting their opponents rhythm. Many thought that once the restart was underway, they would try and defend deep, quickly play forward and frustrate opposing teams but that did not happen. Only Liverpool, Southampton, Man City and Chelsea had applied more pressure in the opponents defensive third of the pitch. Sheffield excelled when they did not have the ball and that is when they harried and pressed opponents into making mistakes. Since the break, this has not worked. They are now ranked only mid-table when it comes to applying defensive pressures. The training team at Sheffield now realise that maximum effort and energy sapping runs at opponents, to force them into mistakes, does not work so well with reduced fitness levels and playing in strong sunshine now the UK is in the middle of its hot summer. The team do not have the same level of fitness since the season resumed. Manager Chris Wilder plays a 5-3-2 defensive shape and this puts tremendous physical pressure on his central midfielders as they support the wing backs so they are not overrun. Playing three centre backs has been Wilder’s preference but he may now have to change that. Guendouzi on way out? I received a phone call on Monday telling me that under fire Arsenal midfielder Matteo Guendouzi appeared in front of a club disciplinary panel this week for his behaviour in grabbing Brighton’s Neal Maupay by the throat. The meeting did not turn out quite as Arsenal expected because the Frenchman told the panel that he wants to leave the club and play elsewhere. Guendouzi told the board that he did not feel he has the manager’s trust and that is why he has started only four of Arteta’s twelve matches in charge. Manager Arteta said that there is a way back for Guendouzi but the Frenchman has told friends he has made up his mind to leave unless the club to make him feel wanted. Dwight told Man U to buy Sane Reports have reached me this week that ex-Manchester United striker Dwight Yorke told the Reds management they should have signed Manchester City’s unsettled winger Leroy Sane. Dwight was never going to get his wish because United have enough talented wingers although Sane might be considered the best around. City have now agreed a £55million fee with Bayern Munich and Leroy underwent a medical on Wednesday. Manager Pep Guardiola has confirmed that Sane will not play for the club again although he added that there is no argument between him and the 24-year-old German. Jadon Sanchez still remains United’s No1 target this summer. The reason for Sane not playing recently, I am told, is that City did not want Bayern Munich to see if his skill and speed has been affected by his long injury lay off and therefore affecting his value. City originally valued Sane at £145million but this drastically decreased because his contract ends next year. Klopp rates his youngsters Jurgen Klopp believes he can keep the Liverpool success story going for many seasons to come. However, he also believes he can do that by not opening the club’s cheque book and instead bringing on academy players. Klopp admits that his thinking has been influenced by financial restraints because of Covid-19 but points out that Trent Alexander-Arnold is a prime example of a young player coming through the ranks and making it as a regular in the first team. Three names mentioned by the manager are 19 year-old right back Neco Williams, 17 year-old Harvey Elliot who plays as a winger and 19 year-old Curtis Jones who plays in midfield. Jurgen expanded on the idea this week by saying, “Our squad is not one which we have to change tomorrow. Ok, we need to fill a couple of positions but what we want is to strengthen from internally. Nico and the boys have done well.” Klopp pointed out that, “It isn’t only money which strengthens a squad but we need to be creative. These boys pull on a Liverpool shirt and give everything they have.” Dyche is frustrated with Burnley Burnley’s excellent away win at Crystal Palace has all but guaranteed their place in the Premier League next season. However, manager Sean Dyche is frustrated that financial cutbacks at the club are consistently hampering his progress to get Burnley further up the league table. Three players left at the end of June: Jeff Hendrick, Joe Hart and Aaron Lennon. Dyche says the team needs to be reinforced. Burnley has spent, on average, £9million a year and Dyche rightly says that to be a performer in the Premier League that just isn’t enough. The team played very well against Palace and it is not easy to win at their home ground but Dyche says that his team cannot keep on giving good results playing with a small squad and one or two top rated individual players. He pointed out that the days of buying Nick Pope for £1.5million, James Tarkowski for £4million and Andre Gray for £6million have gone, even when the down scaling of player values, because of the lockdown, is taken into consideration. He has once again appealed to his board of directors to make funds available and if he does not get them he will probably be on his way out of the club. Gomez says no to United On Tuesday night Manchester United graduate Angel Gomes left the club. Fellow youngsters Tahith Ching, Mason Greenwood, Brandon Williams, James Garner, Ethan Laird and Dylan Levitt have all signed new contracts over the last 18 months. Angel Gomes however is represented by his father Gil and brother Rico and they were not satisfied with United’s financial package. Gomez himself said he is also not convinced he will be given enough playing time at United under manager Solskjaer. Barcelona have tracked him for the last 12 months and Chelsea have also shown interest in the 19 year-old. Mr Plastic Fantastic Tierney After returning from injury Arsenal full back Kieran Tierney is demonstrating the skill of a player who the Gunners paid £25million for last year. The 23 year-old gets stronger every time I see him play. On the field he is all business but without the flashiness. I had to laugh last week when he displayed that same modesty at training. Most of the players turn up with their kit carefully packed into expensive exclusive designer bags. Not Kieran however who turned up with his kit in a plastic supermarket bag which presumably he had obtained from his last food shopping trip!