Western Stima chairman Laban Jobita is unfazed with the rumours suggesting that his priced arsenals will ditch the club following the exit of their shirt sponsor Kenya Power. Several top flight clubs have reportedly capitalised on Stima's vulnerability and are muscling to secure the signatures of players who were outstanding last season. Among the players who have been linked to a move from the Kisumu -based outfit are National U-20 striker and award winning student Benson Omalla,Kelly Wesonga,Fidel Origa and Maurice Ojwang. Jobita said players who have been offered better packages elsewhere are free to switch their allegiance. He, however, cautioned interested clubs to follow the right channel in winning  signatures and assured that he will not hold on those who will successfully negotiate their way out. "Those who want to leave are free to leave as long as the right channels are followed. I am on record having said  that we will not stand in the way of any player who has a better offer elsewhere.We can not cling onto a player who has made up his mind to leave since he will not give us one 100 percent," he said. Asked about the future of the club, the former Gor Mahia player said he will recruit new players from the talent-rich region and steer the club to the next level. Jobita, a former Kisumu Hotstars player, said he had numerous requests from upcoming players to join the club and he will consider them once the transfer window is opened. "Those doubting the future of Stima should watch out this space.If a player leaves, it frees up space for others to showcase their talent.We have been receiving requests from players who want to join us and I believe it's about time," he assured In the meantime,Jobita believes he will nail down a new shirt sponsor to replace the power company. He said he had tabled proposals to potential sponsors and exuded confidence that he will have a reliable source of finances ahead of the new season.He, however, remained coy on possibility of changing the club's name. "From the time Stima left, I began looking for sponsors and I hope my search will bear fruit before the new season kicks off. We do not have any intentions of changing the name of the club but if sponsor wants  it changed then we will have no choice,"he added,