Children could suffer lasting psychological distress as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, an organisation has warned. Save the Children-Kenya said the stay-at-home directive has increased boredom, social isolation and lack of outdoor play. This situation can lead to increased mental health conditions such as anxiety and depression, the organisation said in its latest brief on children and Covid-19. “People who are outside regularly have lower activity in the part of the brain that focuses on repetitive negative emotions. This is one of the reasons children can slide into negative feelings or even depression during the circumstances they are living in now,” said Anne-Sophie Dybdal, a child protection adviser. Schools were closed in mid-March when the first cases of coronavirus were reported in the country and will reopen in January 2021. “This means that children will stay at home for more months, away from the school schedules that include physical exercises and socialisation,” psychologist John Kimani said. Save the Children warned that those who are living in poverty, experiencing violence at home, or are otherwise vulnerable could be pushed over the edge. Data from children’s lobbies indicate that one in four children living under Covid-19 lockdown, social restrictions and school closure is dealing with anxiety. “While children are resilient, we cannot underestimate the impact the pandemic is having on their mental well-being and overall health,” Dybdal said. She said children are suffering enormous upheaval on a scale not seen in this lifetime. “There have been many sudden changes to their lives and so much is yet unknown about the long-term impacts of this crisis,” Dybdal  said. The brief says feelings of helplessness, loneliness and fear of being socially excluded, stigmatised or separated from loved ones are common among children in any pandemic. An article in The Lancet, a medical journal, advises parents and caregivers to incorporate physical activity into children’s daily routine while adhering to regulations on physical distancing. The article says evidence shows children are less active and less sedentary with less consistent sleep patterns when they are not physically at school. “Extended periods should be broken up every 30-60 minutes by standing and even stretching for one minute,” it advises. Save the Children has urged the government to prioritise and invest in children’s mental health, well-being and learning as part of its response to the outbreak. “This includes support for children living in the world’s poorest and most fragile conflict affected communities that may be less equipped to respond to the needs of children who could be separated from parents due to illness, isolation measures or bereavement,” the organisation said. “The mental health impacts of Covid-19 could be seen far beyond the life of the pandemic,” save the children says.