Kisumu county government staff at Prosperity House are undergoing tests in efforts to curb the spread of Covid-19. Deputy Governor Mathews Owili on Tuesday told staff to voluntarily undergo tests to know their status. Owili said the exercise will enable the county government to prevent the spread of coronavirus among staff and the public. The test will be carried out by the county health team in collaboration with the Kenya Medical Research Institute. He spoke on Monday after the county health team took his samples which were forwarded to Kemri for testing. Owili also urged residents to continue to adhere to directives aimed at containing the spread of the virus. “You need to protect yourselves by frequently washing your hands, wearing face masks, and avoiding close contact as well as shaking hands,” he said. Governor’s Press Unit director Aloice Ager said the health team will collect samples from staff then forward to Kemri for analysis. “Staff at the Prosperity House are at risk because they interact a lot with the public. That is the reason why it is crucial for them to undergo a test to know their status. It is for the general good of the public,” Ager said. Last week, Governor Anyang' Nyong'o said all county staff will take Covid-19 tests as an example of commitment to fighting the disease. Kisumu has reported 24 Covid-19 positive cases. One died. Five of the cases are community infections while the remaining 14 are imported. Nyong’o has been taking the test every three weeks, the most recent being four days ago in Nairobi. On all these occasions, the results have been negative according to his communication team. On Friday, members and staff at the Kisumu county assembly were tested. The 47 MCAs are part of the more than 100 people targeted in the testing that began Friday morning. Assembly staffers, casual workers and drivers will also be tested. Speaker Elisha Oraro was the first person to be tested. He said the process was voluntary but urged his colleagues to take part. Oraro said the MCAs will be going on recess soon and it was prudent that they know their status. “The MCAs interact with many people in the wards hence the importance of this,” he said. More than 50 people have been tested.  Edited by R.Wamochie