Some leaders from Kisii have embarked on revamping a political vehicle that could shake up Jubilee and ODM support in the region. Key leaders from the region have launched an aggressive campaign to position the People's Democratic Party as a national party to serve Gusii community interests. The PDP National Executive Council is set to hold a crucial meeting in a fortnight to lay down a strategy to re-position the party within the changing national political dynamics. Party leader Omingo Magara said PDP is planning a grassroots activation programme to popularise the outfit across the region. "It is high time that we reengineer our PDP party because we can't walk back into slavery when we have multiparty democracy. I don't support the idea of killing many political parties," Magara told the Star in an interview. The planned popularisation campaign would then be followed by grassroots recruitment of members across the country as PDP seeks a major rebound into the national platform. "We have two MPs and 15 MCAs. This is the party that will carry the dreams and aspirations of the Gusii community at the national level," said the ex-South Mugirango MP. Magara said the community would only benefit from the national cake if it has a political vehicle to negotiate at the national level. The former Trade assistant minister said while PDP would enhance campaigns to buttress its foothold in the region, the party will also target various parts of the country. "After the NEC meeting we are going to make far-reaching announcements as to how we want to work with the government of the day to realise the Big Four agenda," he said. Magara contested the Kisii senatorial seat on the PDP ticket in 2017 but lost to Sam Ongeri of ODM. He is said to be plotting to succeed Governor James Ongwae who is completing his two terms in 2022. The revival of PDP would, however, has to contend with the Kenya National Congress party headed by ex-South Mugirango MP Manson Nyamweya. Nyamweya, a former assistant minister during the grand coalition government, is also eyeing the Kisii gubernatorial seat and has been laying ground after losing to Ongwae in 2017. Analysts admit that the community lacks a common political vehicle to bargain for a share of the national cake after Ford People was folded in 2016 to form Jubilee. “The community will always miss out because of lack of a common political vehicle that would be pushing for the community's interests. We must work together as a community,” said former Nyamira Senator Kennedy Okong'o. But former Kitutu Masaba parliamentary aspirant and Wiper national vice chairman Victor Swanya warned against tribal parties, saying they tend to serve personality interests. “We must move away from that backward thinking and embrace development of parties as national outfits that believe in ideologies and which can stand the test of personalities,” he said. In Kisii county ODM won the gubernatorial seat through Ongwae, woman representative through Janet Ong'era and the senatorial seat held by Ongeri. Raila Odinga's party has no parliamentary seat in Kisii county. However, KNC won two parliamentary seats through Sylanus Osoro (South Mugirango) and Alfah Miruka (Bomachoge Chache). Magara's PDP also secured two parliamentary seats through Bobasi MP Innocent Obiri and John Oroo of Bonchari. Jubilee has Nyaribari Chache (Richard Tong'i) and Kitutu Chache North through Jimmy Angwenyi. Nyaribari Masaba MP Ezekiel Machogu won via NAPK party while Ford Kenya secured Kitutu Chache South through Richard Onyonka. In Nyamira, Governor John Nyagarama and Senator Okong'o Omogeni won their seats on ODM ticket. Jubilee has Woman Representative Jerusha Momanyi, Kitutu Masaba's Shadrack Mose and North Mugirango's Joash Nyamoko. Ford Kenya flag is flown by West Mugirango MP Vincent Kemosi while Wiper is represented by Borabu MP Ben Momanyi. Edited by Henry Makori