The postponement of the 2020 Olympics to next year was a blessing in disguise to Africa Games taekwondo silver medallist, Faith Ogallo. The latter booked a slot after edging Florence Eldima from Chad in the qualifiers held in Rabat, Morocco in February. Ogallo, who is a third year student at the Kibabii University pursuing a degree in social work, said the one year added on by the organisers as will enable her prepare fully. Ogallo, who ventured into the sport in 2018, vowed to intensify her training through online research to enrich her skills despite not being very experienced. “I don't really have the necessary exposure  in the sport but I believe the time between now and the start of the games will enable me to prepare adequately. I was introduced to martial arts in 2018 and I am hoping to work on my skills before leaving for Tokyo where I am eyeing the gold medal. The Olympics will be my third international assignment after the African Games and the Fujira Championships held in Dubai. Hopefully, like the past two, I hope to win a medal,” he said. Despite counting herself lucky owing top the extended Olympics period, Ogallo regretted that the suspension of sporting activities had disrupted her training. She said the restrictions imposed by the government had denied her the luxury of training with her teammates. “Training at home is challenging as opposed to team work. I miss the team work spirit and challenge from my teammates at the University club. I have a training regime which includes hill work from my coaches which I supplement with skills obtained online,”she said. In the meantime, Ogallo picked out national team head coach Eliachim Otieno to thank for challenging her to join the specialty. She revealed that she had unsuccessfully tried her luck in several disciplines until Otieno confronted her to throw a hat in the ring. “I  participated in 400m hurdles, volleyball, basketball, 3000m steeplechase and tug of war without success. I did this seeking the opportunity to represent the country at the international stage but those disciplines were all crowded. Otieno challenged me to take up an individual sport in 2018 and I have never looked back. I call upon girls to take up martial arts. It only requires determination and discipline,” she added.