Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula has called on residents of Western Kenya to register in large numbers so that they can vote for one of their own in the 2022 presidential race. The Ford Kenya party leader on Saturday said it is only by registering as voters and turning up to vote can the community stand a chance of forming the next government. Wetang’ula spoke at Emuhaya MP Omboko Milemba’s home in Vihiga, where they met opinion leaders and elders from Bunyore. "We can’t be telling people to vote for us at the national level and our own people are not voting for us. Make sure you register as a voter and that will enable us bank on the six million votes in our region,” Wetang’ula said. He urged the opinion leaders, elders and youths in Western not to be a stumbling block between him and his ANC counterpart Musalia Mudavadi's efforts to unite the region. "We know what we are doing, we know what we are planning, and we know where  we are heading," Wetang’ula said. He added that the race to State House cannot be complete "if we keep on throwing stones at each and every dog that barks at us". The senator said they have agreed with Mudavadi and they are going to walk through in solidarity until they finish the journey to State House. “If you want to go far, it is always advised that you walk with others but if you walk alone, you will never go far,” Wetang'ula said. He said they are well-informed about the challenges bedevilling the country and the 2022 General Election will be a defining moment for Kenya and the economy. He added that time has come for the Luhya community to unite and avoid past mistakes. "We need change and change will never come unless we go for it," Wetang’ula said. "The biggest problem we have as the Luhya community is that whenever we start any good move for our people, we must encounter hiccups from our own brothers. This time round, their plans won't work for them,"  Wetang'ula added. In an apparent reference to Cotu secretary general, Wetang'ula said their opponents should stop accusing them of incompetence, and claiming that they are not capable of leading the community. "We won’t allow to be misled by such people because we have now started our journey and we know where we are heading," he said. Meanwhile, the senator said the will hold the five Western governors to account over the use of public resources. "We won’t allow voting in broke people who come to enrich themselves with public resources that are meant to serve Kenyans," he said. Edited by EKibii