Kirinyaga Woman Representative Purity Ngirici has taken the battle to keep her job at a women MPs association to court. She has filed a case seeking to stop the implementation of the decision to remove her as the chairperson of Kenya Women Parliamentary Association, saying it was done illegally and contrary to the law. Also sought is an order to allow her to continue discharging her duties as the chairperson of Kewopa. Ngirici, who was ousted on July 7 and her place taken by Kiambu MP Gathoni Wamuchomba, said for the removal to be legal, there ought to have been an annual general meeting. In her case, no such meeting took place and she wasn’t informed of any wrongdoing on her part. She thus argues the removal is illegal and amounts to violation of her fundamental rights. “That no general meeting under rule 9 (c) was called by the executive committee, which I chair, to discuss my conduct or removal or at all nor was any communication of such meeting, if any, sent to myself,” she said. Under the societies constitution, a member can be removed if her conduct has negatively affected the association and in the case of Ngirici she was never served with any such allegations, court was told. Ngirici said the meeting which removed her from office did not have a quorum of two-thirds. She describes the decision as unfair and one undertaken without any reason being provided to her in both writing and orally. “Unless this honourable court urgently intervenes, I shall stand illegally removed from the chairperson of the association and my rights and fundamental freedoms infringed upon,” the suit papers read in part. The legislator is asking for temporary orders to restrain the Registrar of Societies from altering or changing the records of Kewopa as regards its chairperson. She also does not want adoption of resolutions reached at a meeting held on July 7 pending determination of her court case. In her suit papers Ngirici has sued MPs Wamuchomba, Roza Buyu (kisumu), Mishi Mboko (Likoni), the Registrar of Societies and Kewopa. The association’s leadership is elected at the beginning of the parliamentary term and expected to be in office for the term of Parliament. After hearing the case by Ngirici, judge James Makau certified the matter as urgent. He gave respondents two working days to file their replies and scheduled the case for hearing on July 23 Edited by A.N 