Uasin Gishu MCAs have questioned the exaggerated prices of Covid-19 material bought by the county government at over 200 per cent above the market price. MCAs summoned Health executive Everlyne Rotich and chief officer Kenneth Mbeka on Tuesday to explain the irregular purchases, exaggerated prices and nonpayment of health workers allowances. The chief officer had tabled a report at the county assembly which indicated that the county had bought most of the requirements at costs well above the market prices. The items purchased were for use at quarantine and isolation centres in the county. The items cost more than Sh70 million. Among the items was a pair of gumboots bought at Sh3,500. The market price of the item does not exceed Sh1,000. The county also bought water flasks at Sh4,200 each instead of an average of Sh2,000. The county also purchased thermoguns at Sh15,000 each. The MCAs said the market price was Sh6,000 each. Uasin Gishu county also purchased N95 type masks at Sh1,400 each instead of Sh650 per piece. Uasin Gishu assembly Covid-19 committee chairman Patrick Bundotich (Tarakwa MCA) warned that the officers involved may find themselves in problems. “When we look at the document provided on the purchases, the prices are so high and we wonder if this is prudent expenditure of public funds. We don’t want to find ourselves in the same situation like that of the wheelbarrows in Bungoma,” Bundotich said. Rotich and Mbeka explained that Covid-19 came as an emergency and some suppliers took advantage of the situation to exaggerate the prices. “We did a market survey and ended up with those prices. In some cases, there were shortages of items,” Mbeka said. But the MCAs rejected the explanations, terming the costs unrealistic. Kiplombe MCA Ramadhan Ali questioned why the county did not follow the procurement procedures to avoid wastage of public resources. He said the pandemic was not an excuse for county officials to misuse public resources in such a wasteful manner. There has also been an outcry over failure by the county government to pay health workers allowances, yet a few senior officers and their cronies had been paying themselves exaggerated allowances. A report from the department indicates that some senior officers had already been paid allowances of more than Sh300,000 in three months, while medics on the frontline are yet to be paid. Edited by A.N