Thirty-seven per cent of Kenyans say they would not attend the funeral of a dear friend who died of Covid-19 despite social distancing and few mourners, a survey suggests. It also suggests 23 per cent of Kenyans would not visit recovered patients while 47 per cent would not allow their children to play with the children of people who have recovered from the disease. The reasons appear to be fear of stigmatisation as well as fear of contracting the disease. The poll on Covid-19 fears and stigma was released on Thursday by Tifa. The objective was to assess stigma about going for testing, stigmatisation towards recovered patients and their families and toward bereaved families. It also assessed general psychological distress arising from the pandemic. The field survey was conducted countrywide between June 2 and June 15 among 843 adults older than 18, including 411 men and 432 women. The margin of error for whole sample was +/-4.1 per cent. Stigma is high everywhere. The survey suggests stigma is highest in Eastern, Rift and Nyanza regions. Fifty-one per cent in Eastern, 58 per cent in Rift Valley and 64 per cent in Nyanza, respectively, saying they would attend a funeral of a close friend. They would stay away despite social distancing and despite fewer than 15 mourners. Only eight per cent of respondents said they know someone who has tested positive for the coronavirus. Fewer women than men respondents said they would allow their children to play with the children of recovered patients. People older than 45 showed more stigma towards interacting with recovered patients. Seventy-nine per cent of the respondents said they are likely to go for voluntary Covid-19 testing. Discomfort during the test – swabs up the nasal passage and down the throat - is a major deterrent to testing. Twenty-three per cent said it was a barrier and they would not be tested voluntarily. Other deterrents are fear of being taken to mandatory quarantine (14 per cent) and fear of stigmatisation (nine per cent). Three per cent said testing is too expensive, 11 per cent they don’t trust the testing kits, one per cent said they have no time and one per cent said Covid-19 is just propaganda. “Initially, when the first coronavirus cases were reported in the country, stigma was directed towards people of Chinese origin, recent travellers, healthcare workers and emergency responders,” the survey said. “As the disease continued to spread amongst Kenyans, the stigmatisation has spread towards people who have recovered from the disease, those released from quarantine and their family members. The stigmatisation is worse for those whose close family members have died from the virus.” The survey suggested 46 per cent of the respondents are pessimistic about the future of the virus crisis as they think the worst is yet to come. “The regions with the highest level of pessimism towards the future of the virus are Eastern, Nyanza and Central, respectively,” it states. Fifty-one per cent of respondents in Eastern said the worst is yet to come; 49 per cent from Nyanza and 48 per cent from Central and Western expressed the same opinion. Thirty four per cent in North Eastern said the situation will remain the same, while 33 per cent at the Coast and 30 per cent in Nairobi said the worst is over so the situation will begin to improve. About two-thirds of all respondents said they were “very worried” (65 per cent) about contracting Covid-19 virus and 12 per cent indicated they were not worried at all. Women respondents were more anxious, at 69 per cent, while 14 per cent said they were not worried at all. Sixty-one per cent of men surveyed said they were very worried, while 18 per cent said they were not worried at all. Despite being an epicenter of the virus, Nairobi recorded the lowest level of anxiety towards contracting it. Fifty-two per cent of respondents said they were very worried. Anxiety is highest in Central at 72 per cent, followed by Eastern at 69 per cent, North Eastern at 68 per cent, Nyanza at 67 per cent, Western at 65 per cent and Coast at 64 per cent. Kenyans aged 45 years and above said they are highly likely to get tested. Eighty-two per cent of those aged between 35 and 44 said they were highly likely to be voluntarily tested. “The older respondents are more likely to test for Covid-19 and this could be attributed to the fact that they are a higher risk,” the survey report said. Eastern residents are most likely to go for voluntary testing at 88 per cent; Coast and Nyanza at 84 per cent each and Central and Western with 79 and 77 per cent, respectively. If they test positive for Covid-19, 31 per cent said they would not self-isolate, 55 would not share news with family members while 65 per cent would not provide contact information for contact tracing. Seventy-five per cent of respondents said they do not believe that physical distancing means avoiding communication with family and friends, while 72 per cent believe most people who contract Covid-19 will recover without complications. Seventy-two per cent said people who follow all regulations cannot contract the disease, 28 per cent said Covid-19 definitely leads to death, 13 per cent say complete recovery is impossible. Regarding psychological strain of the virus, 23 per cent said they feel irritable, depressed or homeless, 22 per cent reported being nervous or on edge while 19 per cent said they were having trouble sleeping. “Those who have consumed four or more drinks of alcohol are more likely to be males and living in Nairobi; those who have used a substance more than usual are aged 34 to 44 years and live in Central and Nairobi regions,” the survey said. (Edited by V. Graham) 