 Miraa consumers have denied that they do not observe social distancing and suspect there is a plot to ban the stimulant after Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe cited them as among the likeliest spreaders of coronavirus. Kagwe on Thursday said miraa chewers enjoy the stimulant more when they are close, disregarding social distancing. This closeness, the CS said, must stop. "The enjoyment will be the same when you put some distance between yourselves," he said at the Coast General Teaching and Referral Hospital in Mombasa. On Friday, miraa chewers and sellers cried foul and accused the government of plotting to ban the herb. Kibe Mwachira has enjoyed the stimulant for the past 10 years and says he is among those who cannot do away with it. “There is no proof that miraa chewers spread the disease. We always sit together but we sanitise and maintain social distance,” Mwachira said. According to him, chewing miraa is a personal choice that should not be taken away. “In fact, we have lately been preaching against Covid-19. Our members now observe social distancing,” he said. Kevin Omolo has been consuming miraa for the last seven years and says not all miraa chewers disregard Covid-19 regulations. “Some of us are very strict with social distancing. In our base (selling point), I am in charge and I do not allow many people. Those who are lucky to be allowed in have to be sanitised and sit 1.5 metres apart,” Omolo said. Muslim for Human Rights rapid response officer Francis Auma said there are many places where miraa is chewed and Covid-19 regulations are disregarded. “If the government deems there is more risk with miraa chewing then it better temporarily ban the herb,” Auma said. The chewers may not like it but public health is more important than the pleasures that put lives at risk. “The government has a duty to protect the lives of its people and if it entails taking drastic action then so be it,” Auma said. The sellers of the herb that is grown mainly in Meru, said such drastic action would destroy their business. According to John Mwenda, traders should not be penalised for people's enjoyment of the stimulant. “What we do is only sell. And where we sell, we usually maintain social distance because we had a meeting with government officers,” Mwenda said. He said most of their clients buy the herb for chewing elsewhere, mainly at home. “If the government is to take any action, it should spare sellers,” he added.  - mwaniki fm