The Ministry of Sports is looking forward to present their report on the possibility of the return of sporting activities to the national government once Cabinet Secretary, Amina Mohamed, returns and gives the recommendations a clean bill of health. Amina is in Switzerland, where she is among the six candidates battling to become the next head of World Trade Organization Prior to her nomination and departure, Amina had set up an 18-man advisory committee to oversee the possibility of sports resuming. The members were supposed to table their observations and recommendations to her office latest by July 10. However, Chief Administrative Secretary at the ministry, Hassan Noor Hassan,  who chaired the committee said  the final draft will be handed to the government once his boss jets back. He admitted that the much-awaited communication from the ministry had delayed due to Amina's absence. “The final draft is being worked on and as soon as the CS comes back,  we will go through it and present it to the national government. The report was supposed to be out earlier in the month but we have to universally endorse it before handing it over,” he revealed Hassan, who yesterday oversaw the distribution of training gear to various teams which have already qualified for the Olympics, lauded the National Olympic Committee of Kenya for sourcing the materials. Among the teams which benefited from the gears worth approximately Sh 600,  000 are the Malkia Strikers, Shujaa, Kenya Lionesses, Kenya boxing team,  taekwondo exponents and marathon team. “The training gear will help our athletes to keep fit for the time sporting activities are suspended. The qualification window is still open and I laud federations which are preparing the athletes to book slots in the main event,” he said. In the meantime,Hassan pledged to roll his sleeves and gather more resources towards the support of vulnerable athletes. The ministry has in the past months been supporting athletes who have been economically affected by coronavirus and Hassan reiterated their commitment to oversee the program to next month and even in the subsequent months. “We have been cushioning them in the past and we are looking to extend the helping hand until August. We continue to engage various stakeholders to pool more resources in support of the initiative,” he added.