MPs allied to Deputy President William Ruto want ODM to give up the Public Accounts  and the Public Investments committees if they working with President Uhuru Kenyatta . Speaking in Webuye West on Saturday, the politicians said there was no way ODM can hold positions reserved for the opposition and still claim the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee. “Let them [ODM] be honest i their dealings because they know they are no longer playing the oversight role. They should thus leave the two committees for the opposition parties,”former Majority Whip and Mumias MP Ben Washiali  said. Washiali said if ODM continues holding the two committees, it will compromise the oversight role of Parliament because it no longer checks the government. He said as Jubilee MPs who have been dethroned from their positions for supporting the Deputy President, they will continue playing their oversight role without fear of being victimised . “We will never be intimidated as long as what we are fighting for are the rights of the common mwananchi,” Washiali said. The politicians further vowed to rally the Mulembe community behind Ruto, saying he is the most popular among presidential aspirants. “Let’s support Deputy President William Ruto. We need to vote as bloc as Luhyas so that we can get a fraction of the government that will be led by Ruto or else, we will remain in the opposition forever,” Washiali said. Malava MP Malulu Injendi called on ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang’ula to agree on who will lead the community so that they can court friends to form the next government. “The Luhya community alone cannot win the presidency. Let us initiate talks with other communities, including that of the Deputy President,” Injendi said. Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa said Ruto is the only leader who has shown interest in supporting the Luhya community because Raila Odinga can’t lead them. “Let us find refuge in Ruto. Raila does not have Luhya interests at heart. If we continue dilly dallying and remain confused, we will be left out by this fast-moving train,” Barasa said. Webuye West MP Dan Wanyama said Ruto is the only friend who has shown interest in uniting the community. “I am appealing to our older brothers Musalia Mudavadi, Wycliffe Oparanya and Moses Wetang’ula to join us in supporting a Ruto presidency because if we don't unite, we are doomed,” Wanyama said. Bumula MP Mwambu Mabongah said has caused more harm to Luhyas than good. “The only person who has shown interest in supporting Luhyas is the Deputy President . Let us stand up and support him,” the independent MP said. Edited by EKibii