Sports Principal Secretary Joe Okudo says the government is committed to ensuring the success of the Kip Keino Classic, Nairobi’s World Athletics Continental Tour track and field meeting on September 26. Okudo spoke after a consultative meeting with Athletics Kenya and members of the Kip Keino Classic organising committee at Nyayo National Stadium yesterday. He said the government is committed to making sure the meet succeeds saying this will also give confidence that Kenya is ready for business despite the challenges brought about by Covid-19. “As a ministry, we are doing all it takes to ensure all aspects of organisation are perfect as we get closer to the competition on September 26,” Okudo said. “We have the support of His Excellency the President Uhuru Kenyatta who wants to see us hosting a successful championship, and that’s why he has been personally visiting the Nyayo National Stadium to inspect progress of renovation works,” the PS added. He spoke after meeting with AK President Jack Tuwei and Kip Keino Classic organising committee members who had gone through a thorough inspection of the stadium. “It is important for us to see physically that everything is in place and on schedule for the competition on September 26,” Tuwei said. “From what we have seen, we are happy and comfortable that we are on track.” Sports Stadia director general, Pius Metto took the team through various areas of the renovated stadium, assuring that both the main arena and warm-up area will be ready in good time. “We are also working on the track to make sure it’s in good shape for the competition. We are waiting for the funds to start working on the electronic scoreboard and all procurements have been done so all is well,” Metto said. After being put on hold due to the coronavirus pandemics, the Continental Tour gets underway on August 11 with the Paavo Nurmi Games in Turku before the Istvan Gyulai Memorial in Szekesfehervar, Hungary on August 19. The other meeting next month is the Seiko Golden Grand Prix in Tokyo, Japan, on August 23. Kip Keino Classic meet director, Barnabas Korir said the response from international athletes has been overwhelming. “We have interest from USA and also several African countries like Ethiopia, Nigeria, Uganda, Tanzania, South Africa and some North African countries,” said Korir, who had earlier met with Ethiopia’s ambassador to Kenya, Meles Alem, to drum up support for the Kip Keino Classic. 