Construction of all three Lapsset berths is complete. The three worth Sh48 billion will be commissioned after the worst of the Covid-19 pandemic passes but that is not expected anytime soon. The first berth was completed in August 2019. Construction of the second and third berth, which are 1.2 kilometers long and about 18 metres wide, started in Kililana area in 2016. The Lamu Port is part of the Sh2.5 trillion Lamu Port South Sudan-Ethiopia Transport (Lapsset) Corridor that will open up northern Kenya and is expected to contribute 1.5 per cent to Kenya’s GDP. The port is a government initiative to develop a second deep sea port along the Coast. Speaking on Tuesday, Lapsset Corridor Development Authority director general and CEO Silvester Kasuku said the container yards for the last two berths will be completed shortly. “We want to officially announce construction of the second and third berths is done. We are working on the yards and then we shall be ready to launch,” Kasuku said. The first berth was to have been commissioned by President Uhuru Kenyatta in November last year but the event was postponed. The President said completion of the first three berths will present a strong case for private sector involvement in constructing the remaining 29 berths and other components of the corridor, including the Special Economic Zone. "The Special Economic Zone already has been gazetted in the Lamu Port City,” Kasuku said. “It will in turn provide an ideal freight logistics hub, an information-communication and technology park and a world-class tourist and recreational zone once Lamu Port becomes operational," Kasuku said. Lapsset regional manager Salim Buno acknowledged the contribution by the China Communications Construction Company in realising completion of Lamu Port despite challenges. “We are just glad the Covid-19 situation didn’t slow down the works,” Bunu said. Upon commissioning, the port will begin operations initially as a trans-shipment hub for global shipping lines that will be supported by the Special Economic Zone. The Lamu Port Project plan includes a 32-berth port, transportation hubs for rail, highway and international airports in Lamu, Isiolo and Lodwar, an oil pipeline from South Sudan, Uganda and Ethiopia to Lamu Port, an oil refinery and three resort cities in Isiolo, Lamu and Turkana. (Edited by V. Graham) 