The pubs and restaurants association have opposed the proposal by the government to control the sale and consumption of alcohol in a bid to curb the spread of Covid-19. Speaking in Nairobi on Wednesday, the owners under the umbrella of the Pubs Entertainment and Restaurants Association of Kenya noted that the proposed draft regulations by the Health Ministry if approved will tender thousands jobless, while businesses are likely to collapse. They noted that restaurants and eateries have gone through a lengthy and expensive process of obtaining the clearance to reopen. This is after several pubs and restaurants have been highlighted for being in contravention of the protocols laid down by the ministry. They said a small percentage and isolated cases highlighted in the media for flouting protocols should not be used to for collective punishment of the entire sector, adding that offenders should instead be individually charged in courts. The association's national chairperson Alice Opee said they have invested more than Sh200 million in adhering to the reopening protocols with some establishments having investments of almost Sh1 million hence have no intention of flouting the protocols. "The isolated cases highlighted in the media are not members of Perak and such we disassociate our members and the association from their heinous act of floating the laws as laid down by the government," Opee said. In a draft document seen by the Star on Tuesday, the government is considering banning the sale of alcohol in eateries. The document states alcoholic drinks should not be sold to sit-in customers at restaurants, eateries, bars, food courts, entertainment joints, supermarkets, wines and spirits shops or any outlet. Establishments that sell alcohol would operate between 9 am and 7.30 pm. “Section 3 and 5 means that the only place where alcohol can be consumed is in people’s homes. This is against the spirit of the Alcoholic Drinks Act, which bans sale and consumption of alcohol in the presence of children,” Opee said. In the regulations, a person would not be permitted to consume alcohol in public spaces. This include public parks, restaurants, parking lots, eateries, bar, entertainment joints, supermarkets or wines and spirits shop. "A person who contravenes these shall on Conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding Sh20,000 or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding six months," the document reads.