When some women leaders from Mt Kenya met with the newly installed Majority Leader in the National Assembly Amos Kimunya, they were expecting one other female MP to accompany them. The legislator however did not show up confirming their fears that the MP was not about to abandon the Tanga Tanga wing of Jubilee. In the lead-up to the luncheon that was said to be a thanksgiving ceremony, those behind the plan are said to have been so sure that the MP will show up and would have been a perfect opportunity for photo sessions to portray the Tanga Tanga outfit allied to the Deputy President William Ruto to be losing troops. A county secretary from Nyanza, has hit a dead end after his five pseudo bank accounts were frozen by Assets Recovery Agency (ARA). He has now resorted to vendetta in order to revenge to a junior official in the county whom he has been accusing of being a spy. The secretary whom has been camping in Nairobi since early this week delegated the execution responsibility to his driver-cum- body guard . The targeted official is said to be mysterious to the point that he walks around without leaving his foot marks. He is also said to be operating without no known phone number fearing one may use to tap his conversations. An MP from Eastlands has irked the constituents by axing their names from the list of beneficiaries of the Covid-19 stimulus package. The MP is said to have discriminately whittled the names of the poor and vulnerable because they happen not to be from the same tribe. The uncouth act fanned the fury of the locals who had been promised jobs leading to protests. Understandably, the political merchants spanned it to mislead the public that the protests were sponsored. A Police boss from one of the Western Counties is hell bent on pushing out a Sub-County police chief under him and two other Officers Commanding Station (OCSs) for allegedly being part of the criminal activities in the region. The top cop is accusing the juniors of engaging in unethical practices including extortion and blackmail while being protected by the SCPC. The OCSs are said to be misusing their positions to enrich themselves and the SCPC. The CSPC who brags of strong links to Vigilance House openly brags that the boss is engaging in an exercise in futility as the ‘hardworking’ OCSs are going nowhere. The push and pull between the police bosses have compromised security within the county.