 Musalia Mudavadi's advisers are digging his political grave by misadvising the ANC party leader, elders from Luanda constituency have said. They said Mudavadi will not survive an onslaught that will be mounted against him if he does not stop intimidating junior leaders in the party. Led by Livistone Omwakwe, the elders who spoke at Central Villa Hotel in Luanda town on Friday, said Mudavadi should realise that everyone is vital to his presidential bid. They were reacting to news that the ANC party had expelled Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala for going against the party during the Kibra parliamentary by- election last year. Malala supported ODM candidate Imran Okoth who beat ANC backed Eliud Owalo. ANC has also expelled nominated MP Geoffrey Osotsi. The party claimed he misused funds and went against party guidelines. But the elders on Friday dismissed the claims against Osotsi, saying the MP could not be bale to withdraw party funds without the treasurer and the chairman who must also be signatories to such accounts. “We are appealing to Musalia to do proper investigations to that bank that transacted or allowed the withdrawal of funds without treasurer and the chairman's signatures because that has never happened before,” Omwakwe said. He said Mudavadi should be working with all ANC members and its leaders within the region to strengthen the party ahead of the 2022 General Election. Omwakwe said Mudavadi should not be expelling young members in the party because they will be the next custodians of the party. “Good fathers do not chase kids out of the house when they have wronged, he only engages them with advice on the way forward,” Omwakwe said. They asked Mudavadi to revoke the expulsions of both Malala and Osotsi so the party can build itself from within. Malala has already said he will not be threatened or intimidated by his expulsion from ANC. "I'm like a son to you and you don't have to beat, punch and kick me out. By the grace of God, I have risen from a one-term MCA, county assembly speaker, senator to Senate Deputy Minority leader. Why would you want to take away all these gains that I have worked so hard for in a day?" Malala asked Mudavadi.  Edited by P.O