The Export Processing Zone Authority has warned employers against exposing their workers to the Covid-19 pandemic. EPZA board chairman Paul Gicheru said some of the employers were exposing their workers to coronavirus by defying the directives of the government to combat the disease. Gicheru said all companies at the zone must be responsible by complying with the regulations so as to safeguard their workers. “Everybody must be responsible. We  can’t allow companies  to endanger lives of their employees,” Gicheru told the Star by phone on Sunday. He was responding to reports that some of the employees working for two textile companies had been forcibly quarantined after contracting coronavirus. “Many companies at the zone are trying to comply with the regulations. As the     EPZA board chairman I categorically state that the authority doesn’t support employers who don’t comply with the Covid-19 regulations,” Gicheru said. “We must put safety measures to protect employees at all times. We must all be responsible as citizens.” The Star established that more than 60 employees of New Wide Garments Ltd and Mahalakshmi Garment Ltd had  been placed under forceful quarantine at Mbagathi Hospital and Kenyatta Stadium isolation centres in Nairobi and Machakos counties. Gicheru condemned the companies’ management stating that they were notorious for contravening the directives.  The companies are under the same management. But an official from New Wide Garments Ltd said they shouldn’t be condemned for their employees’ who  tested positive for the virus. Requesting anonymity due to the sensitivity of the matter, the official protested against EPZA claiming it had failed to sponsor mass testing at the zone. He said the positive cases were reported in their two companies since they are the ones who had sponsored the tests. “Why are we being condemned while tests haven’t been conducted in other companies? Let EPZA sponsor tests on the virus in other companies and give us the results,” he said. The New Wide Garments Ltd official confirmed that several of their employees had been moved to quarantine after testing positive for Covid-19. “We have several employees quarantined in government hospitals. I can’t give the exact number since I am also in isolation after testing positive. I tested positive in the first test and now recuperating, I just took a second test and waiting for the results,” he said on phone. Gicheru said companies that failed to safeguard their workers’ lives would be closed down at the zone. “We don’t want to kill our companies and still we don’t want to kill our people. The over 30,000 people will go home jobless. We must balance  to avoid completely ruining our economy,” he said. He said the authority would enforce necessary measures on employers who fail to comply with government directives on Covid-19, including closing down their companies. “We won’t condone negligence. We will close them if they fail to take care of our people. The law must be enforced where people aren’t complying with it.” Edited by Henry Makori