Kajado taxpayers are on the verge of losing Sh800 million after the defunct Olkejuado county council failed to pay a Sh300 million court award to a private club. This emerged during a Senate committee hearing as the legislators questioned Governor Joseph ole Lenku on stalled projects, unsupported pending bills and why unauthorised officers incurred Sh5.1 billion on behalf of the county government. The Senate County Public Accounts and Investments Committee had summoned the governor to respond to audit queries flagged by former Auditor General Edward Ouko in 2016-17. The audit report showed that by June 30, 2017, the county had not settled Sh670 million awarded to Kilimanjaro Safari Club for breach of contract. The club sued the defunct local government for reneging on an agreement not to allow the construction of a competing club within a certain radius. Kilimanjaro Safari Club had leased the land, but the council breached the contract and approved the construction of Oltukai Lodge. “Consequently, Kilimanjaro Safari Club instituted a suit reference HCCC No. 182 of 2005 against Olkejuado County Council on February 17, 2015, to restrain the county council from levying rent in distress,” according to a report before the Senate. The court found the council culpable and awarded the club Sh300 million, an amount whose interest has ballooned to Sh800 million. He said the matter was of great concern and sought the Senate’s intervention. Lenku said the county has set aside Sh100 million to start clearing the debt. "We have started to take corrective action, but I don’t believe it was justified from day one for the claimant to be awarded such an amount for land that belongs to the county," the governor said. The Ongeri committee acknowledged that the devolved unit was between a rock and a hard place and advised fast-tracking of out of court negotiations or staggering the payments such that development is not jeopardised. Lenku, who took over office from David Nkedianye in 2017, was put to task to explain the how more than Sh500 million worth of projects stalled. The projects include the construction of Sh119 million library in Kajiado, Sh198 million Ngong Sports Complex and Sh53.7 million Kajiado County Referral Hospital maternity wing. The projects were initiated by the former administration. The governor said the projects stalled due to lack of funds and non-performing contractors and consultants. He, however, said they were being revived. The former Interior Cabinet Secretary was pressed to explain why some accounting officers had not been issued with Authority to Incur Expenditure (AIE) letters four years after the audit. The unauthorised officers incurred, on behalf of the county government, Sh5.1 billion contrary to provisions of the Public Finance Management (County Government) Regulations 2015 that require the authorisation of Finance CEC. “I admit the time of the audit, the officers were not properly authorised to incur expenditure on behalf of the county government. However, we have since regularised them,” the governor told the nine member committee.  - mwaniki fm