The Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry has endorsed Sports CS Amina Mohammed’s quest for the World Trade Organization director-general job. Amina, a former WTO General Council chair is among three Africans battling for the position at the organisation that deals with the rules of trade between nations The Geneva-based organisation is seeking a replacement for Brazil’s Roberto Azevedo, whose term ends in August. In a statement, KNCCI president Richard Ngatia said Amina’s experience and expertise as a diplomat having previously chaired WTO in 2005 make her an ideal candidate for the position. He said the CS would negotiate and create business opportunities for African countries on a global scale. “Amina has a rich background. Her previous engagement with the international community is a plus for her. A good example is in 2015 when she was able to negotiate for Kenya to host WTO general conference in Nairobi,” he said. Ngatia noted that the CS’s win will significantly boost Kenyan business at the WTO. “Her victory will extensively create opportunities for businesses through structured trade agreements. She will craft room for negotiations and dispute management,” he added. The chamber president said that Amina's candidature, having served as head of the dispute settlement and trade policy review bodies at WTO, provides an opportunity for adherence to global trade rules. If selected, Ms Amina will be the first woman and African to serve as director-general at WTO. Women leaders in the country have also endorsed Amina for the position. Kenya Women Parliamentary Association chair Gathoni Wamuchomba said Amina has a wealth of expertise for the job. National Gender and Equality Commission commissioner Priscilla Nyokabi also backed Amina’s candidature. Kenya Private Sector Alliance boss Carol Karuga said Amina’s experience at the WTO and the multilateral trading system makes her the best candidate for the position. The candidates are South Korean trade Minister Yoo Myung-hee, Mexico’s former WTO deputy director-general Jesus Seade Kuri,  former Nigerian Foreign minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala,  Egyptian former diplomat Hamid Mamdouh, and former Moldovan Foreign minister Tudor Ulianovschi. Amina has said she is the best candidate for the post due to her vast experience in the field of diplomacy. She said her work in multilateral trade relations and negotiations will put the body on a transformative path. Since the director-general position was created in 1995, three holders of the office have been from Europe, one each came from Oceania, Asia and South America.