 Senators Beatrice Kwamboka and Mary Seneta are facing punishment for kicking and throwing punches at each other during a committee election. The two also tore each other's clothes in a fist fight that followed a disagreement during the election of Narok Senator Ledama Ole Kina as vice-chairman of the Health Committee. Senate Majority Chief Whip Irungu Kangata said the House leadership is investigating the circumstances that led to the Wednesday fist fight between the ODM and Jubilee senators. “The matter is under investigation to ascertain facts. So far, we have conflicting information on what really transpired,” Kangata told the Star. During the fist fight, the two nominated senators lunged for each other’s throat.  They later termed it a friendly fight. Kangata said they are seeking to establish two theories – whether there was a physical fight or if the lawmakers only engaged in bitter exchanges. “There are those saying there was no fight but bitter exchange of words and views, which is normal among politicians," Kangata said. He added, "We shall review CCTV footage, interview witnesses and make a conclusion." However, the Murang'a senator said punishment may not be the only route the leadership might take upon the establishment of the facts, saying the Senate has developed a policy that encourages alternative dispute resolution mechanisms. On Wednesday, the nine-member Health committee was scheduled to hold its election to choose its chairperson and vice chairperson. While Trans Nzoia Senator Michael Mbito was peacefully elected unopposed as chairman, Ole Kina also expected to be voted unopposed following a deal stuck by the handshake team of those allied to President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader  Raila Odinga. Kisumu Senator Fred Outa proposed Ole Kina for the seat and was seconded by  Kwamboka. However, nominated Senator Farhiya Ali proposed Senata to be the vice-chairperson to the utter shock of members. Farhiya is not a member of the committee but had come to step in for Beth Mugo who was absent. Though, it was not clear who seconded Seneta, the newly elected chairman Mbito proceeded to call for a vote for the position. As the committee was readying itself to cast the ballot, Farhiya momentarily stepped out and came back armed with signature of nominated Senator Millicent Omanga. “I have instructions to vote on behalf of Millicent Omanga, who is a member of this committee,” Farhiya said, sparking fierce protest from members. “This is unacceptable, we won’t allow it to proceed this way,” Kwamboka, who is also the deputy minority whip, said. Kwamboka claimed Farhiya had forged Omanga’s signature to forcefully have Seneta elected the vice-chair of the committee. “Since we cannot verify or authenticate, the claims of Senator Farhiya Ali of being instructed to step in to vote on behalf of Millicent Omanga who is not present, we will have to adjourn this sitting,” Senator Mbito ruled. After the cancellation of the election, the altercation spiraled outside the Senate chambers where Kwamboka and Seneta insulted each other using unprintable words. “You cannot tell me anything, Mimi ni mtu ya Raila Odinga and I am in the leadership, I will deal with you,” Kwamboka said as she reached for Senata's jugular. In anger, Seneta hit Kwamboka with her bag before Kwamboka hit back in similar fashion as the lawmakers engaged in a fight. It took the intervention of parliamentary orderlies to separate the two. Later, Kwamboka downplayed the altercation claiming “it was a friendly fight” “We are friends with Mary Seneta, there is nothing much but I will make sure she is out of that committee,” Kwamboka told People Daily.  Edited by P.O