Indecision has rocked Musalia Mudavadi's camp with his key allies appearing to be sending mixed signals about his 2022 political plans. The sluggishness has brought confusion in the ANC leader's political bandwagon even as he schemes to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. Mudavadi has heightened political activities to court new allies ahead of the 2022 polls but political analysts say his camp remains undecided. On one hand, there are claims Mudavadi's advisers are pushing for a political pact with Deputy President William Ruto. On the other hand, some of his confidants want President Uhuru to pick him as successor to return the 2002 political favour. Mudavadi had in 2002 gone against the Narc wave and backed Uhuru, the then Kanu presidential candidate and preferred heir to the late President Daniel Moi. Former Cabinet minister Franklin Bett told the Star that while Mudavadi is a calculative politician he is yet to come out to fight for his space. "The 2022 wind appears to be blowing in favour of those within the Building Bridges Initiative," Bett said. However, ANC deputy party leader Ayub Savula told the Star on Friday that Mudavadi remains the man to beat in 2022. “What we want is that President Uhuru should return the favour and support Mudavadi as his successor. Mudavadi sacrificed a lot in 2002 when he supported Uhuru,”  he said. Savula first revealed the dilemma in the Mudavadi camp when he appeared to appeal to ANC MPs to tone down their attacks on key leaders from Western Kenya. He said ANC politicians should desist from attacking Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa and Cotu boss Francis Atwoli. The trio is said to be working closely with the President while championing a 2022 agenda that is at cross-purposes with Mudavadi's political plans. The sudden retreat by Mudavadi's allies further throws his camp into confusion over his exact plans. However, Savula denied that Mudavadi is indecisive, saying the ANC boss wants to woo other leaders to support his bid. “What we are saying is that we want Oparanya's team to join Mudavadi because so far they don't have a presidential candidate. We want to work with them so that Mudavadi can succeed the President in 2022.” Mudavadi has in the past openly criticised the President's handling of the economy. Political analyst Felix Odhiambo on Friday warned that unless Mudavadi makes bold and pragmatic decisions, fence sitting would cost him “dearly.” “The Mudavadi we have is one who wants to be the compromise candidate all the time. He must wake up and fight for his own space if he wants to be a force in the 2022 polls,” argued Odhiambo. Mudavadi is planning a visit to Central Kenya to popularise his 2022 presidential ambition. He hosted close to 20 ward representatives from Nyeri county on Wednesday to roll out his plans for the tour of the region. Mudavadi has already met Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua and former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth and some MPs allied to Uhuru from the region. The meeting with Karua and Kenneth on May 28 was also attended by Sally Kosgey, who served as head of Public Service during former President Daniel Moi's regime. After meeting Mudavadi, Karua hinted at a possible alliance bringing together her Narc Kenya, ANC and other parties ahead of the 2022 General Election. (edited by o. owino)