Twenty Homa Bay women MCAs have started a mentorship programme for girls in the war on teenage pregnancies and sexual abuse. The leaders, under the umbrella of Homa Bay County Assembly Women Caucus, said teenage pregnancies need to be tackled conclusively. Representatives Sophie Koweje (chairperson), Joan Ogada (organising secretary) Lorna Owino, Nereah Amondi and Jane Kitche said they want to empower adolescent girls by educating them on the dangers of engaging in sex at an early age. “The caucus is sensitising adolescent girls to say no to premature sex and instead focus on their studies for a better future,” Koweje said. She spoke when the leaders launched the programme at Ringa Catholic Church in Kojwach ward on Saturday. Koweje said they are also providing sanitary towels for girls from poor families. “Many girls from poor families use mattresses and old clothes as sanitary towels. We hope the pads will prevent them from engaging in sex because of their vulnerability,” she added. Ogada said they will conduct the mentorship programme in all 40 wards and donate face masks before schools reopen in January next year. She said they are also encouraging residents to comply with measures put in place by the government to prevent the spread of Covid-19. “All stakeholders are our ambassadors to ensure the programme achieves its objectives. We’ve agreed with boda boda officials not to allow boys to operate motorcycles for money because this may distract them from their academics,” Ogada said. Owino urged parents to monitor their children and address the problems they face during the pandemic. Amondi and Kitche warned that Homa Bay statistics on teenage pregnancies and HIV infections may double if residents and leaders fail to tackle them now. Statistics show that Homa Bay tops in HIV prevalence with 20.1 per cent and comes second in teen pregnancies at 33 per cent after Narok county. “Let leaders in Homa Bay combine their efforts and address the social ills that affect our children. Let’s start now when schools are closed due to Covid-19 pandemic,” Amondi said. Edited by A.N