The government has finally named the new Masinde Muliro University council chairperson, ending over a vacuum at the institution. In a gazette notice dated March 20, Educational CS George Magoha appointed Jane Mutua as the chairperson of the new university council for three years. The position fell vacant after the term of Jeremy Bundi expired over a year ago. He was appointed to serve on the Pwani University council, now swapping places with Mutua, who was moved to Masinde Muliro. Bundi, however, moved to court seeking to be retained at the Kakamega-based university. The court reinstated him but Mutua challenged the decision. Also appointed as new council members are Stephen Muturo of Consumer Federation of Kenya (Cofeck), Connie Mogaka, Gathu Kiragu and Joshua Onyango Oganga. They are to serve for a period of three years with effect from March 10. They replace Bundi, Sam Muchulele, Vayonda Sirma, Dorothy Kimeu and Joyce Migure whose terms have expired. Ahmed Diriye's term as a council member is yet to expire. The university has also been without substantive vice and deputy vice chancellors for the last 15 months and the top management is in acting capacities. The term of the former VC, the late Frederick Otieno, ended on November 31, 2018. In August last year, the Public Service Commission shortlisted candidates for the position but a court case ensued after Otieno obtained orders blocking the appointment of his replacement for being barred from the interviews. Asenath Sigot is the acting vice Chancellor, Benardete Sabuni is the acting DVC academic and student affairs, Patrick Ojera is the acting DVC Academic and Finance, while Charles Mutai is the acting DVC Planning, Research and Innovations. The new council's priority will be to end the temporary  leadership at the institution by ensuring appointment of substantive DVCs. Also in the in-tray is established of Francis Atwoli's Center for International Labour Studies and the Tekla Lorupe's Center for Spots Academy. 