Health CS Mutahi Kagwe on Wednesday left Kenyans in stitches after admitting that he also used to enjoy the famous 'Kagwe Special'. This was the term crafty Kenyans were ordering after the government said eateries will be allowed to offer customers only two drinks when they order for food. But Kenyans took advantage of this to eat a sausage and two alcoholic drinks. They did this as they went to different eateries. "Watu wanakula sausage moja na beer mbili. Anaingia kwa restaurant ingine anakunywa sausage na beer mbili. Anaenda kwa ingine anaitisha machungwa na beer mbili eti ni dessert," Kagwe said last month. But on Tuesday, Kagwe said that this will no longer be possible after President Uhuru Kenyatta banned taking of alcohol in eateries. Speaking during his daily briefing on Wednesday, Kagwe said those who are used to the 'Kagwe special' should channel the money to more important things. "I am one of those who used to enjoy a drink 'Kagwe special' but now I will channel the cash towards something else like buying some one a mask," he said amid laughter from those present. Kagwe said people who were used to alcohol should thank God for the ban. "Wengine walikuwa wamezoea pombe sana, sema asante kwa Mungu ameleta mambo ambayo itakuzuia kwenda bar," he said. "Pesa ungetumia kwa pombe, nunulia bibi na watoto zawadi, angalia nyumba yako. Hata mimi nilikuwa nafurahia Kagwe special ." On Tuesday, Kagwe warned against taking parties to households after the ban on alcohol sale. The Health CS said that it will no longer be 'sausage mbili na beer mbili' but 'sausage mbili na soda moja'. The President on Monday ordered all bars to be closed indefinitely, adding that those that don't adhere will have their licences permanently withdrawn. Kenya on Wednesday recorded 544 new cases of Covid-19, raising the country's total to 19, 125. The new positive cases were drawn from the 5, 259 people whose samples were tested within 24 hours. 113 patients have recovered from the disease, bringing  the total number of recoveries in the country so far to 8, 021. However, 12 more patients succumbed to the virus, raising fatalities in the country to 311.