The British government has praised the Directorate of Criminal Investigations for its dedication to fighting crime in the country. Through Deputy High Commissioner Susie Kitchens, the UK government said tremendous results had been realised under DCI boss George Kinoti. Kitchens was speaking when she paid a courtesy call to Kinoti at the DCI headquarters. The deputy high commissioner said desired results especially in the war against corruption are being realised and the DCI should also be commended for the good relationship with other agencies that has seen perpetrators arrested. She said the UK government will renew its dedication in supporting the directorate to execute its mandate. Kinoti in his remarks said the Embassy has been instrumental especially in training and provision of specialised crime management equipment. In a previous interview with the Star, Kinoti said a number of graft suspects had found refuge in the DCI and EACC by bribing officials during investigations. “What we found upon assuming office was mind-boggling. It was pure economic thuggery. Some of the cases, among them very sensitive ones, have been with the EACC for years.” He said that when he took office, he found “some difficulties. There are some people who have been seeking refuge elsewhere. We met a culture, a way of life by cartels that were ripping off the State,” he said. Kinoti said this is the root of the row pitting the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and the DCI after the latter took up cases. The DCI has been investigating multibillion-shilling scandals at the Kenya Pipeline Company, National Youth Service, Kenya Power, NHIF and the National Cereals and Produce Board. In March this year, Kinoti  travelled to the US to attend the Federal Bureau Investigations (FBI) executive training. Kinoti was the only detective from Africa considered for the high-level training with the other four attendees being drawn from Canada and Australia. At least 15 top FBI officials took the participants through strategic leadership development and current affairs in the three-week training.