The majority of political parties in the country have no proper systems to handle internal disputes. Chairperson Political Parties Dispute Tribunal Desma Nungo said many parties are grappling with resolve disputes internally. Nungo said although the law requires that before any dispute is brought to their attention, parties must look for alternative ways to handle the dispute, many of these disputes end up on their table without seeking the said alternatives. Nungo was responding to questions during a webinar on Kenya’s scorecard on electoral reforms. “Challenges have been there but we encourage political parties to establish these internal systems to handle the disputes and be determined at the party level,” Nungo said. She said as a result many litigants have been left hopeless forcing them to seek redress at the tribunal. “This is why we say there is a great need to amend the law so that we do not waste a lot of time as a tribunal dealing with preliminary issues that would have been handled at the party level,” she said. Nungo said in most of the cases, the tribunal has not given substantive justice to those seeking redress but rather referred them back to their respective parties. The chairperson said another limitation to the tribunal has been the fact that there exists an overlapping of jurisdiction between the tribunal and IEBC. “We need to come up with a mechanism to handle the issues and clear guidelines on which entity should handle the matter,” she said. Nungo added, “Nomination disputes should strictly be subjected to internal dispute resolution mechanism so that all litigants are given fair administrative action”. Nungo said the fact that the tribunal is centred in Nairobi has made matters worse for those in the grassroots. “This has created a limitation to accessing justice for those in counties. The majority of them are the minority groups facing tremendous challenges in terms of transport and other logistics,” Nungo said. She said the commission ought to have 7 members but currently, it constitutes of only four members who at times are overwhelmed. “There is a great need for us to widen our composition to spread network to the grass-root level by increasing funding to strengthen operations,” she said.