Mombasa is the first county in Kenya to comply with the Sports Act, 2013 and has subsequently been recognised by the Sports Registrar Rose Wasike. Mombasa County Football Association, formerly the FKF Mombasa sub-branch, has thus been mandated to run all football related activities in the county after receiving their registration certificate No. 198. MCFA chairman Goshi Alliy said they are in the process of organising for the county elections as ordered by the Registrar. “Mombasa county will conduct its elections on August 15 before the expiry of the 90 days as per the Sports Act,” said Alliy at the Mombasa County Stadium boardroom. He confirmed he will defend his seat. MCFA’s registration certificate was issued on May 27 but they only received it July 17. The delay, according to Alliy, was because they were yet to submit some crucial documents without which the certificate could not be released. The Sports Act 2013 requires all sports federations and disciplines to align themselves with the Act before they can be recognised by the government. Alliy said already, some 24 football clubs in Mombasa have registered with the Sports Registrar with others in the process of doing so. The Mombasa county sports department has pledged full support for the MCFA on all football related activities in the county. Chief Officer Innocent Mugabe, in a letter dated July 22, said they will partner with the association to ensure development of football in the county from the grassroots level to the top tier level. FKF Presidential aspirant Twaha Mbarak said Mombasa has the potential to produce the best players in the country if the county puts its act together. “We have started on the right note. Complying with the Sports Act of 2013 will ensure smooth running of football in the county and this can only be beneficial to the players, referees and all football stakeholders,” said Mbarak. Mbarak urged all football clubs in Mombasa to register themselves with the Sports Registrar and the MCFA in line with the Sports Act 2013. 