President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday stepped in to quell the simmering tension in the Senate over the proposed revenue sharing formula among the 47 county governments. His intervention followed mounting pressure on senators to shelve the proposed "retrogressive and unfair" formula. President Kenyatta indefinitely cancelled a high stakes senators’ meeting to discuss the cash allocation method that had split the lawmakers. The legislators were headed for a nasty clash after Orange Democratic Movement leader Raila Odinga reportedly instructed party senators to join their colleagues from the marginalised areas to reject the proposed formula. “It was the President who cancelled the meeting. It was going to get murkier. I think they (Uhuru and Raila) have to agree before we meet,” a senator disclosed to the Star. In a note to the senators, Speaker Kenneth Lusaka said the meeting (kamukunji) had been cancelled due to "unavoidable circumstances." Minority Chief Whip Mutula Kilonzo Jr said the meeting was cancelled because the senators had not agreed on how the counties losing revenues will be compensated. “The problems have not been solved. We need to look at how we are dealing with counties that are losing,” he said. Six governors and senators from the coastal region under the umbrella of Jumuiya ya Kauti za Pwani called on the Senate to reject the formula and give time for discussion. They joined leaders from 10 other counties, mainly Northeastern and parts of Rift Valley, who last week called on the senators to defer the new formula by at least a year. In the new proposal, 18 counties stand to lose up to Sh17 billion if the method is adopted by the Senate. The losing counties are mainly  in the Coast, Northeastern and Eastern regions. According to the coastal leaders, the formula in its current form is a major threat to devolution and systematically progresses the economic marginalisation of their region with a total revenue reduction of Sh4.7 billion annually. “The leaders note with concern that the Commission for Revenue Allocation (CRA) ignored the very basic principles of Articles 201, 203 and 217 of the Constitution,”  JKP chairman Salim Mvurya (Kwale governor) said in a statement on Monday. He spoke for colleagues Amason Kingi (Kilifi), Granton Samboja (Taita-Taveta), Hassan Joho (Mombasa), Dhadho Godhana (Tana River) and Fahim Twaha (Lamu). “The counties affected by reduced revenue allocations are mainly at the Jumuiya and Frontier counties, while Central and Western are the main beneficiaries,” the statement noted. Out of the six Coastal counties, only Lamu has a paltry gain of Sh218 million, which is insignificant considering that its annual allocation of Sh2.6 billion is the least in the country. The contentious formula (the Mithika Linturi formula) is an improvement on the one proposed by the Commission on Revenue Allocation, the panel says. It gives population a weight of 16 per cent, health (20), agriculture (12), basic share (20), poverty (15), land area (five) and urban (four). The biggest losers are Wajir (Sh2 billion based on analysis of the Sh314 billion shareable revenues), Marsabit and Mandera (Sh1.9 billion each), Garissa (Sh1.6 billion), Tana River (Sh1.5 billion), Mombasa (Sh1.6 billion) and Kwale (Sh1 billion).  - mwaniki fm