A Kenyatta University student has invented a cheap, easily mass produced nasal swab to fill Kenya’s desperate shortfall and test for Covid-19. Simon Karuga Ndirangu, 28, a fourth-year biotechnology student, is making the medical device using three 3D printers that can produce 3,000 pieces per day. One printer produces 1,000. The registered and patented prototype is being tested and validated prior to mass production. At first the university will turn out about 100 a day, each selling for Sh100, as it seeks market partners. Ndirangu says it is less invasive than the long imported nasal swabs that make testing uncomfortable. “Through my innovation, the government will be able to fight the pandemic rapidly due to availability of more testing kits which meet international standards,” he said The Nyandarua county government has donated Sh500,000 to support the invention of the Kenyan nasopharyngeal swab – the nasal swab – and says it can donate more. The Mt Kenya region can also donate. Ndirangu, who is from Mung’etho village in Ndaragwa, said when Covid-19 struck, there was a need for reagents and testing kits to fight the pandemic. “My idea was inspired by Health CS Mutahi Kagwe who said there’s need for a sharp business person who can come up with an idea for locally produced devices.” The imported nasal swabs are only made by two companies, one in the US and one in Italy, and they only arrive in Kenya in small batches. The student spoke on Monday evening when Governor Francis Kimemia and Nyandarua officials met him at the Chandaria Business Innovation and Incubation Centre at Kenyatta University. Ndirangu said the prototype swab is being validated by the Kenya Bureau of Standards and the Pharmacy and Poisons Board. He is also working with the university for clinical validation. It has set up a committee of professors and doctors. Professional medics, who are PhD holders, are undertaking validation as an undergraduate student is not allowed to do it. The university’s ethics review committee will give the go-ahead for mass production once it verifies all the internationally recommended protocols for production of such device and the standards are met. Ndirangu said he chose to make the device at Kenyatta University where he studies because the World Health Organisation dictates that Class A medical devices can only be produced in a research institution. The device has an easy breaking point, which will help the swab be easily put in a viral transport medium ready for testing without requiring using scissors to cut it. Ndirangu said using scissors to cut the device once it has been inserted in the nose or throat can lead to contamination. He said after hearing CS Kagwe, he made a proposal to the university through his supervisor, Prof Stephen Runo of the microbiology and biotechnology department. He recommended it to the deputy vice-chancellor for Research and Innovation, who recommended it to vice-chancellor Paul Wainaina. The VC gave him the materials he needed to start. Ndirangu has been on the job for six weeks. Prof Runo described Ndirangu as a talented, innovative and inquisitive student, who thinks outside the box to solve problems. He said the university is supporting the student as he develops the swab until production to ensure it is clinically validated and approved by the Kenya Bureau of Standards and other agencies VC Wainaina said the device has already been registered and patented, hence, it cannot be stolen. It will eliminate the need for the country to import, he said.. The ventilators being made by innovators at the university have also been registered and patented. Kimemia said what is happening at Kenyatta University is history in the making and will confirm the future belongs to knowledge-driven societies that are technologically savvy. “The Covid-19 challenge has forced creativity, innovation and inventions among the counties. It has proved that necessity is the mother of invention,” he said. The governor assured the university that Nyandarua will buy both the nasal swabs and ventilators once they are ready for the market. He said his fellow governors in the Central Kenya region are also ready to support innovation. The Nyandarua county chief said his administration will give more money to Ndirangu if his project continues to do well. (Edited by V. Graham)  