Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo has said Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka should be impeached. He made the comment on Thursday after Lusaka adjourned the debate on the disputed revenue formula for the fourth time. The lawmakers failed to agree on a formula on Thursday despite weeks of negotiations. Some senators told the Star that the environment was toxic and that the session would have been nasty. "We should impeach speaker Lusaka for adjourning the senate unlawfully ! Bure," Mutula Jr said via Twitter on Thursday. Narok Senator Ledama Ole Kina agreed with the post. "I agree  we can’t adjourn the Senate like a village meeting ...." he said. Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika explained why she was not able to speak up . "First they came for the Communists I didn’t speak out because I was not a Communist. Then they came for the Socialists I didn’t speak out because ... Then they came for the Jews I didn’t speak out because I was not a Jew. Then they came for me and there was no one left to speak for me. Niemölle." she said. The stalemate has stalled the passage of county allocation of revenue Bill. Before the Bill is passed and signed into law by the President, counties cannot get money. This tweets attracted a variety of replies from their followers. Speaker Lusaka was on Tuesday forced to defer the debate to Thursday after a Senate business meeting convened to deliberate on the formula before it is slotted in the Order Paper failed to agree. Lusaka appointed a small team of the Senate Business Committee to work with the Finance and Budget Committee to seek consensus. At least 25 senators had by last Friday rejected what they termed as a divisive formula. They include 18 senators whose counties would lose up to Sh17 billion, if the formula is adopted, while the others are mainly from Raila’s Nyanza backyard and parts of Rift Valley. At least 24 out of the 47 delegations (one vote per county) are needed to pass the formula. Those opposing the proposed method are from the traditionally marginalised and less populous regions of Northeastern, Lower Eastern, Coast and parts of Nyanza and Rift Valley. The proposed method of sharing revenue among counties has sparked a major national storm. The formula determines how the counties will share money allocated to them for five financial years until 2023-24. The Commission for Revenue Allocation proposes the following criterion: CAi= 0.45PNi + 0.26ES +0.18PIi + 0.08LAi +0.02FEi + 0.01DFi. ‘CA’ refers to the total revenue allocated to the county. ‘PN’ is the population index, ‘ES’ the equal share, ‘PI’ the poverty index, ‘LA’ landmass index, ‘FE’ is the fiscal effort while ‘DF’ is the development factor. The formula is based on 10 parameters: Health (17 per cent), agriculture (10), other county services (18), basic minimum share (20), land area (eight per cent), roads (four), poverty (14), urban services (five), fiscal effort (two) and fiscal prudence (two).