The number of coronavirus cases in the country surpassed the 10,000 mark after 379 new cases were confirmed on Sunday. The total number of cases now stands at 10,105 from a cumulative test sample of 215,037 conducted since the first case was recorded on March 13. The 379 new cases came from 7,050 samples tested within 24 hours. One more patient succumbed to the virus, bringing the total number of fatalities to 185. “I send our heartfelt condolences to the family and friends of the bereaved,” Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said in a statement. The new cases are aged between two and 97, comprising 253 males and 126 females. Nairobi county continues to lead, having recorded 209 new cases on Sunday. Kiambu had 49 cases, Busia 38, Migori 19, Mombasa 16, Kajiado 12, Uasin Gishu eight, Lamu six, Machakos and Nakuru had five each, while Narok, Wajir and Kisumu had two each. Garissa, Isiolo, Kericho, Nyamira, Nyeri and Trans Nzoia recorded one case each. In Nairobi, Kibra had the highest number with 52 cases. Lang’ata had 45, Kamukunji 28, Dagoretti North 17 and Makadara 17 cases each, Emabakasi Central eight, Embakasi East eight, while Westlands had seven. Dagoretti South, Embakasi West, Kasarani and Roysambu recorded four cases each with Ruaraka and Embakasi South having two cases each. Mathare and Starehe had one case each. In Kiambu county, the 49 cases were recorded in Ruiru, Kiambu town, Lari and Kikuyu with each recording 16, 15, seven and four cases respectively. Limuru and Thika had two cases each while Gatundu South, Kabete and Kiambaa each recorded one case. In Busia, the new cases were recorded in Teso North, Matayos and Teso South with 18, 15 and five cases respectively. The new cases in Kajiado were from Kajiado East seven, Kajiado North three and Kajiado Central two cases. All the eight cases in Uasin Gishu were from Turbo, all the new cases in Lamu were from lamu West while the cases in Machakos were from Kathiani and Athi River each recording three and two cases respectively. In Nakuru, the cases are from Naivasha (four) and Nakuru West (one). The two cases from Kisumu were in Muhoroni and Nyando. Yesterday, the Kenyatta National Hospital's Mbagathi infectious disease unit said it will no longer be handling Covid-19 suspected cases but only confirmed ones. In an internal memo, the institution's directors and head of departments were also cautioned not to receive referrals from counties unless under special circumstances. The memo dated July 9 was signed by the hospital's senior director of clinical services Dr Irene Inwani. "The head of unit respiratory infections diseases is directed to stop all the screening activities and public testing at the KNH Mbagathi IDU,"she said. Kagwe on July 7 said there will be no airlifting of patients from other counties to Nairobi. "There will be no capacity to be brought to Nairobi for treatment as Nairobi itself will be already overwhelmed. Where we are heading is unpredictable," Kagwe said. Edited by Henry Makori