Kiambu county politics has degenerated into turf wars as Governor James Nyoro is at loggerheads with Thika Town MP Patrick Wainaina. Each accuses the other of sabotage. Wainaina is expected to run for governor in 2022. Nyoro, then deputy governor, took over in January after Governor Ferdinand Waititu was impeached and his removal upheld by the Senate. Relative tranquility prevailed until recently when Wainaina accused Nyoro of sabotaging the projects of his Jungle Foundation outside Thika constituency. The MP accused Nyoro of ordering his inspectorate officers to demolish more than 10 boda boda sheds he had constructed in Ruiru, Gatundu South and Gatundu North constituencies. Since March when the first Covid-19 case was reported in the county, Wainaina has been traversing Kiambu, distributing supplies to combat the virus' effects through his Jungle Foundation. His actions have sparked serious speculation that he wants to run for governor and is raising his countywide political profile. The first-term MP won the Thika seat on an independent ticket. He is likely to run against Nyoro, former Governor William Kabogo and Senator Kimani Wamatangi On Friday, Governor Nyoro took the battle to Wainaina's doorstep. He was joined by Deputy Governor Joyce Ngugi and political adviser David Ngari, popularly known as Gakuyo, and Thika township ward representative Andrew Kimani. The county leaders accused Wainaina of hijacking and sabotaging projects initiated by the county government for political mileage. “Thika has been the worst place in terms of politics and this is derailing developments in Kiambu. We have been initiating projects and then the MP [Wainaina] comes and claims the national government is doing the same projects. "He is out to distract me and I won’t allow this to happen,” Nyoro said. Nyoro was launching the Sh153 million tarmacking of a section of the Kenyatta Highway in Thika town. The project is part of the Sh305 million World Bank projects in Thika under the Kenya Urban Support Programme with the Kiambu county government. The national government through the Kenya Urban Roads Authority has also set aside Sh700 million for tarmacking and recarpeting of roads within Thika town. Kenyatta Highway is one of them. Nyoro, who became furious while speaking, said he has had enough of the lawmaker and declared he won’t sit back and allow the Wainaina to insult him. “I won’t remain silent again while someone is poking my eyes. Active politics will kick off and we will meet on the ground and settle the political tiff," Nyoro said. He was bitter with the MP for taking credit for development projects outside his constituency. He said the MP was campaigning and trying to outshine the county leadership. “What are you going to do in Kikuyu and other areas? First, finish your work in Thika. Address all the problems Thika residents are facing,” Nyoro said. The governor also accused the MP of being a “tangatanga mole” in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s home turf and told him to declare where he stands. “All Kiambu MPs must declare whether they are behind [the President] or not. Others should stop telling us they are independent, they should get a party and make it clear whether they support President Kenyatta," Nyoro said. Wainaina is the only MP in Kiambu who won on an independent ticket. He defeated Alice Ng’ang’a with 58,286 votes against her 50,115. Deputy Governor Ngugi told Wainaina to concentrate on developing Thika and warned him the government will demolish his structures if he fails to follow correct procedures. Nyoro’s political adviser Ngari warned the MP to stop meddling in county projects and accused him of jeopardising development. He said he will run for the Thika seat and remove Wainaina. Thika Township MCA Andrew Kimani told the MP to stick to his own constituency projects Wainaina recently said that he will not engage in confrontational politics as that would undermine projects and derail the President’s agenda of development. (Edited by V. Graham) 