Health CAS Rashid Aman has urged Kenyans to be adhere to the directives and measures put to curb the spread of the virus. Speaking during a press briefing on Wednesday, the CAS echoed that it is better to be safe than sorry as the numbers increase as some Kenyans are not adhering to the measures put in place. "If we act without taking into consideration those balanced measures we could very easily erode the gains that we have made. We must strike a balance on how to see our country move forward. It is better to be safe than sorry," Rashid said. He also expressed his gratitude to a man who he visited his office to share his grievances on how his area is handling Covid-19. Aman stated that the man said that he went to the ministry's office looking to convey a message to any top official. He waited and was finally able to see Aman after the guards let him through. The man stated that he comes from Ruaka and he went to the ministry to raise concerns about residents not adhering to the measures placed by the government, especially when it comes to public transport. Aman said he was touched by the man's effort to visit the ministry and wait to see an official, adding he could see he was not a man of means, but was determined to convey the message. Rashid urged Kenyans, including matatu operators, to adhere to the instructions given on the maximum number of passengers that can be carried. “I want to make a special appeal to each one of us to take personal responsibility in the fight against this disease," Aman said. Kenya on Wednesday recorded 307 new cases of Covid-19, raising the country's total confirmed cases to 6,673. The new cases emerged from 3,591 samples that were tested in the last 24 hours. The CAS said Kenya's cumulative tests now stand at 173,355. Of the new cases, 298 are Kenyans. The youngest of the new cases is one year old, while the oldest is 81 years. Another 50 patients discharged, bringing the number of recoveries to 2,089. However, one more patient died, bringing number to 149 death cases.