  The hustler movement is unstoppable. The 2022 election will be a race between the dynasties on one hand and the hustlers on the other. The hustlers team is captained by Deputy President William Ruto and the other camp is coached by the dynasty families who want to control power and resources  at the expense of others. Ruto will be flying the flag of the hustlers while the dynasties are not yet clear about who their preferred candidate will be. The dynasties have tried every possible way to malign the DP with all sorts of scandals, but we, the people behind him, have vowed to soldier on. We will remain on course and ensure the majority have their way in 2022. It will be an election between the haves and the have nots. In the last three years, we have learnt a big lesson that the dynasties have no regard for the rest of Kenyans. After the handshake, we have witnessed how laws, government policies have been aligned to favour the business interests of certain individuals. When they are outrightly siphoning our resources, creating massive business empires, they want the public to believe they are expanding public interest. But when common Kenyans try to make progress, they are branded thieves. We want to end this in 2022 so that those Kenyans with no political power benefit from the resources that we have. Our forefathers chased away the white settlers but unfortunately, a few individuals took charge and alienated the majority. That is why it is only a hustler government that can, genuinely, execute lifestyle audit. It is only a hustler government that can implement the Ndung'u Land report; and the Truth Justice and Reconciliation Commission Report. The Building Bridges Initiative task force report will not since it was constituted by two individuals. It is ironical that BBI was set up and has been collecting views, but when you see the appointments being made by this government, you wonder if indeed there is genuine need to ensure equity is distribution of national appointments. Even the recent changes in the National Assembly, you can see the trend that we lack the commitment to cure one of our biggest challenge - tribalism. The Lwandanyi MCA spoke to the Star.