Two rugby players who were convicted for raping a musician in 2018 have pleaded to fresh charges before a Milimani court. Frank Wanyama and Alex Olaba appeared before Magistrate Zainab Abdul on Tuesday and separately denied a charge of gang rape and indecent act with an adult. Last week, High Court Judge Ngenye Macharia ordered a retrial of the two players after he found that the trial magistrate who convicted them did not record whether the key witness in the case was ever sworn in or not. Olaba and Wanyama denied raping the woman on February 11 2018 at Seefar Apartments. The prosecution did not oppose their release on bail but asked for stringent terms, telling the court that the two were previously convicted of the offence of gang rape. However, their lawyers asked for reasonable terms arguing that the High Court had ruled that the previous case was a mistrial and the case should be tried afresh. In her ruling, Abdul said even though they had been convicted, this is a new case and it should be treated separately from the other cases. The court noted the seriousness of the offence that the two were facing but also noted that they are entitled to bond. She ordered them to deposit a Sh300,000 cash bail each or an alternative of Sh500,000 bond a surety of the same amount. The court further warned them not to interfere with any witnesses in the matter failing which their bail terms will be cancelled and they will go to remand. The court also directed the Executive Officer at Milimani law courts to release all the exhibits that were used in the previous case back to the Investigating Officer so that he can prepare for the new case. In her ruling last week, Justice Macharia said the retrial of the two players should be dispensed with on priority basis by another magistrate other than Chief Magistrate Martha Mutuku who convicted them. Judge Macharia said the only reason why she ordered for a retrial was because the court did not record whether the victim was sworn before she gave her testimony that was used to convict the accused. "The court was not present when the evidence was taken it has no way to determine whether or the victim was sworn before she testified,” the judge noted. In her opinion, there was a likelihood that that the two accused persons were convicted on the basis of an unsworn testimony which is in violation of Section 151 of the criminal procedure code. “This kind of violation can in no way be curable under the law and it vitiates the entire proceedings” the judge ruled. However, judge Macharia said the evidence before court shows that the two indeed raped the victim and there is a likelihood that they will be convicted yet again so a retrial would serve justice to both parties rather than a acquittal. She declined to acquit them as the defence had applied saying from the evidence shown by the prosecution, the sex was not consensual. The judge even noted at one point that the 10 months spent in jail by the two is not sufficient punishment for the defence to ask for an acquittal as this stage. 