Hoteliers at the Coast have received the news of the reopening of the economy with optimism that in the remainder of the year business will return to normal. A number of hotels have already announced reopening from July 15. Mid-July is usually the start of the tourism peak season which goes all the way to December. Most hotel facilities are coming up with favourable packages to attract domestic tourists. International tourists are expected to come to Kenya after resumption of international passenger flights in August. Diani Reef Beach Hotel, Voyager Beach Hotel, PrideInn Paradise, Travellers Beach Hotel and Whitesands Beach Hotel are expected to reopen by next week. Diani Reef Beach Hotel managing director Bobby Kamani said they are set to reopen their doors to the public from Wednesday next week. “We have used the last three months of closure to make refurbishments and upgrade our property. We have also set the standards required by Ministry of Health to combat spread of Covid-19 by setting up social distance guidelines and hygiene standards,” Kamani said in a statement. He said the hotel, which is a five-star facility, had already started receiving booking inquiries from its regular long-term clients. “Our regular long-term staying guests want to check in by August 1. We also have wedding enquiries. We remain hopeful that the sector will pick up again,” he said. Last week, PrideInn Hotel regional general manager Victor Shitakha said their five-star facility will also reopen on July 15. Flamingo by PrideInn, their other facility, will reopen on August 1. “We are ready for business. We have adhered to all the standard operating procedures put in place by the national and county governments,” Shitakha said. He said at PrideInn hotels, they have put in place measures to ensure social distancing and high-level standards of hygiene to combat Covid-19. The staff have also been trained on how to combat the virus. However, he said the staff will be operating in shifts. PrideInn Paradise and Flamingo by PrideInn have a total workforce of over 500 employed directly. “Once we reopen, we do not expect business to pick immediately. Therefore, we will not need all the staff back to work immediately. They will be recalled on rotation so that everyone has an opportunity to come back until when business stabilises,” he said. Sarova Whitesands Beach Hotel is also expected to reopen next week. “We are ready. We are just waiting for the county government to inspect our facility. We are hopeful business will start next week,” said a staff at the hotel. The Kenya Coast Tourists Association has said majority of hotels have adhered to the Ministry of Health guidelines on combating Covid-19. At least 30 hotels at the coast are set to resume operations this month. Edited by Henry Makori