Embakasi East MP Babu Owino has threatened to sue Nation Media Group over a story on Felix Orinda, polularly known as DJ Evolve, whom the legislator is accused of shooting. Babu denied the charges preferred against him at a Milimani court in January and was granted Sh10 million bail, whihch was later reviewed to Sh5 million. He was charged with attempted murder and behaving in a disorderly manner. NTV on Monday reported that DJ Evolve, who was recently discharged from hospital, is still bedridden and cannot do anything by himself. The video showed the DJ has not fully regained his voice and is struggling to talk. But through his lawyers, Okatch and Partners Advocates, Babu asked the media for a public apology within two days. He wants the media house to admit liability for 'slanderous and libelous statements' or he will sue. In a demand letter seen by the Star on Thursday, Babu claims that the piece aired on TV was aimed at pitting him against the public. “That your story on the plight of Orinda though noble as it shows his improved state, has been used by yourselves to attack, accuse, persecute. reprimand, convict our client in the eyes of the public. The sole intention was indeed to whip up emotions, and incite the public against our client, ” the letter dated July 1 read. Babu said the story infringes his constitutional rights to a fair hearing. “That we have carefully listened to and watched the said story over and over and indeed at no point has the said Felix Orinda stated that he was shot by our client, ” he said. “In fact, even before your news item, Orinda has never ever stated in any forum whatsoever that he was shot by our client. The Directorate of Public prosecutions has further confirmed that in fact Orinda has never recorded a statement on the matter.” Babu said that the 'slanderous, libelous defamatory remarks' have made him suffer considerable mental anguish and embarrassment. "... as a result of your aforesaid words and statements which have made him doubt whether he can ever have a fair trial after your illegal actions, ” he said. "We shall seek appropriate remedies which will include, but not limited to aggravated and exemplary damages as well as costs of the action without any further reference to yourselves.” The prosecution of Babu over attempted murder of DJ Evolve has been slowed down by the inability of the victim to record a statement. Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji on Tuesday said the shooting incident had affected his speech. Haji said the IO report indicates that the victim is paralyzed and has a speech impediment making it very challenging to record his statement. The DPP's  sentiments come amid public outrage on how the MP is living a lavish life while the victim is suffering. In mid-January this year, a CCTV footage from B-Club showed Babu drawing his gun and shooting a man who appeared to be Orinda in Kilimani. Babu was arrested over the incident. Since the incident, an online petition that seeks to stop a culture of allowing firearms into entertainment spaces in Kenya has been launched. The organiser Gregg Tendwa, said club owners should champion the conversation on the safety of revellers. “We want to stop the culture of allowing guns into entertainment spaces in Kenya, while demanding justice for Felix Orinda, popularly known as DJ Evolve,” read part of the petition. “The DJ Fraternity in Kenya and the diaspora calls for immediate action by Club Owners and the relevant government authority to bring to book the perpetrators of the crime.”