Just how powerful is a Chinese contractor handling a multi-million shilling water project in a county in Nyanza? Well, the project has been abandoned for months, with the contractor having been paid millions. Concerned residents say they have always been referred to the higher officers whenever they ask about the government and donor-funded project. Tired of the power games employed by the state agency tasked with the venture, the lot now wants Water Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki (pictured) to visit the site not only to unlock the stalemate but also see for herself how much women suffer to get water in the area. *** A top official of one of the most vibrant political parties has clashed with a senior government official. The two are fighting over a lady – a nominated MCA. Initially, sources say, the lady was having a clandestine love affair with the party official who is said to have engineered her nomination. Later, following wrangles in their party, the lady left the man for the government officer. The man (the party official) has got wind of the affair and has threatened to orchestrate the state officer's removal from the influential post if he does not leave his ‘lover.’ As they say, all's fair in love and war. *** A governor from Western Kenya is said to have perfected the art of launching ghost projects. Residents are, however, said to be a step ahead and know which projects are real and which ones are not. Word is that locals have teamed up with MCAs and are plotting to embarrass the county chief during one of his upcoming functions should he try to commission a project that has not been factored into the budget. The governor is also said to have formed a habit of cutting ribbons for projects that had already been commissioned by his predecessor as he brags about how development-conscious he is. *** Seems the 2022 fever has caused as split among staff attached to a Coastal governor's office. Two factions, one supporting the preferred candidate to succeed the outgoing governor and another opposed to the choice, are going for each other’s throats if revelations of their different plots are true. A little bird has whispered to Corridors that there is a plan to sabotage the preferred candidate's activities. Indeed, a recent donation event of the highly placed candidate was cancelled at the last minute after it was discovered that the items were not the intended ones. Could this be part of the sabotage?