Over 15,000 secondary school students in rural areas where there's low internet penetration are set to receive printed learning materials. The move is aimed at keeping them at par with other learners currently accessing virtual learning delivered via radio, television and online. Currently, eight in every 10 Kenyan learners are missing out on the virtual learning according to estimates. Usawa Agenda organisation says most affected are those in poor, rural communities that lack modern infrastructure to support e-learning. The initiative by Prudential Life Assurance Kenya and Kenya Education Fund (KEF) aims at supporting education outcomes for students who do not have access to online learning. “This project aims to bridge this learning divide by enabling learners from vulnerable communities to continue learning even as schools remain closed due to Covid-19,” Prudential Life Assurance Kenya CEO Raxit Soni said. The beneficiaries will receive the printed learning materials that will be distributed through their schools. About 11,250 students in Forms 1, 2 and 3 will receive reading and learning materials. These are purely revision kits based on the secondary school curriculum. Currently, many students, especially from rural and underprivileged communities, are unable to access online learning materials due to lack of internet connectivity. Soni said the initiative targets learners from financially disadvantaged families unable to benefit from virtual learning. He said Prudential has set aside Sh9.3 million for the project that also aims to provide 4,000 female students with sanitary pads. Usually, female students in such communities access sanitary pads at school but with learning institutions shut, they are exposed to unhygienic practices and social stigma. “The beneficiaries of this project hail from some of the most vulnerable communities grappling with the harsh impacts of the coronavirus pandemic on social life. Improving learning outcomes is crucial in ensuring that students in such places are not left behind,” KEF country director Dominic Muasya said. President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered the closure of schools on March 15 soon after the first case of Covid-19 was confirmed in the country. Following this, many institutions especially private schools opted for online learning to ensure access to educational curriculum outside the traditional classroom.  Edited by P.O