With the Zambian Super League restarting this weekend, 12-time champions Nkana are likely to do without the services of the Kenyan trio of Haron Shakava, Duncan Otieno and Duke Abuya. The three, alongside Musa Mohammed, returned home after coronavirus forced competition to be adjourned in March with ten matches to go as a precaution measure to its spread. Musa was also attached to the club before the virus struck but his contract expired last month. Shakava says that with the ban on international flights still on until the start of next month, their travel to Lusaka remains in doubt. The Harambee Stars' defender revealed that there are no travel arrangements made yet by their employer hence frustrating their hopes of joining the rest who resumed training two weeks ago. Before the league was halted,the Kitwe-based outfit was placed fourth with 43 points,three shy of leaders Forest Rangers—an outfit that is home to former Sofapaka captain Mathias Kigonya. The former Gor Mahia skipper, who is still at his Kakamega backyard, said the club had unsuccessfully tried to smuggle them to Tanzania where they would connect to Zambia. "We are likely to miss out when the competition restarts this Saturday. There are no passenger flights yet and the club has not succeeded in their bid to sneak us to Tanzania for a connection flight. The team began training two weeks ago and we fear that we may not play for the remaining bit of the season," he said. Shakava confirmed that the duo of AFC Leopards and Wazito had approached his agent for his signature but he was yet to make up his mind. The towering defender also disclosed that two foreign clubs are also muscling for his signature. He said with the numerous offers on his table and restrictions on international travel, he may consider ending his ties with Nkana amid reports that the latter was struggling financially and was earlier accused of frustrating foreigners. "My contract with Nkana ends in July next year but offers are flying in.Two local clubs have expressed interest but we are yet to agree on anything although I am unlikely to return to Zambia if the interested clubs will offer better packages.I also have two bids from foreign clubs but I am yet to decide on my future," he added.