Residents of Kijiwetanga area in Malindi subcounty, Kilifi, on Tuesday protested against laxity of Kenya Power which has failed to replace a transformer that got damaged three months ago. The angry residents waving twigs and singing protest songs accused KPLC officials of being arrogant and leaving them in darkness since May. They said power loss had led to an increase in criminal activities within the area at night as there was no lighting. Addressing journalists at Kijiwetanga, the residents claimed trouble started after a transformer blew up but it has not been changed to date. Mohamed Hamisi Masoud, a resident, said each time they try to go to the KPLC offices they are told to wait despite the fact that they need the power to store their products. He said they normally store fish and chicken in freezers but since the transformer burst they have been incurring huge losses. Masoud said over 50 families had been affected directly by the power shortage, adding that currently they are unable to do business. "Each time we go to the Kenya Power offices they tell us to wait, and we need electricity a lot because of our businesses of fish and chicken," he said. He said the officer in charge of Malindi KPLC, Harrison Macharia, had been unable to assist them despite many visits to his office. When contacted for a comment on the phone Macharia said he was not aware of the problem. He said journalists should have first engaged the corporate communications department of KPLC before covering the protests. Sidi Stephen Masha said since the power went off due to the transformer they have had challenges in accessing water from boreholes which use electricity to pump water. "We are crying because there is no water, no electricity. Children are being defiled when they go out at night due to the darkness," she said. Rodgers Katana, another resident, said they had been following up the matter for long but each time they are told the officials do not know when the transformer would be replaced. Ganda MCA Reuben Katana said he would mobilise the community to demonstrate to the offices of KPLC if they fail to restore power in seven days. Katana said they had lodged complaints in the Kenya Power offices but no action had been taken. "We dug boreholes which use electricity and since the transformer burst residents have been forced to walk for long distances to get water," he said. Edited by Henry Makori