Home-based care is the best way to handle Covid-19 going forward, especially with the expected spike in infections, Health Cabinet Secretary, Mutahi Kagwe has said. He said primary health care has been recognized globally as the most effective way of making improvements in healthcare delivery and addressing the heavy burden of disease, therefore contributing to better medical care, social economic development as well as achieving Universal Health Coverage. Kagwe said community empowerment was key to the primary health care approach that has been adopted by different nations over the past four decades. He said to support the implementation of Primary Health Care, the Ministry with the support of the county governments and partners has developed the Primary Health Care Strategic Framework 2019/2024. He said the government was working towards 100 per cent community health care units and coverage, adding that the Ministry was training 31,780 community health volunteers. “This will ensure full coverage of community health services in the country which will support home-based care and isolation for Covid-19 and attainment of Universal Health Coverage,” the CS said. He added that the Ministry had developed a Community Health Policy which will result in better leadership and governance of Primary Health Care at the national and county levels. Kagwe said the document will guide in terms of recruitment, training and deployment of community health workforce as well as a stronger and responsive community health system. Speaking at the Nakuru County Referral Hospital when he officially launched the Primary Healthcare Strategic Framework and Community Health Policy, Kagwe said the government would invest more on primary health care. He said the level of preparedness with regards to Covid-19 at the counties was  above where Kenya as a country was four months ago. He commended Nakuru which has not only attained the 300 isolation bed capacity as asked by the president, but surpassed the number to 600 and targets to have 1,000 isolation beds in the next four to six weeks. He observed that the county has also trained 551 frontline healthcare workers on COVID-19 was ongoing with another volunteer community health workers were also being education. He said it was commendable to use community members in the fight against COVID-19. “I am pleased to learn that the county had recruited 68 interns and 98 health care workers and Universal Health Coverage programme, with the County Public Service Board being in the process of recruiting another 97,” said the CS who was accompanied by Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui and other senior health officials. During the function, several medics in Nakuru and a driver were recognized for their exemplary work in the fight against Covid-19. The driver was commended for his daily trips to Nairobi to ferry samples for testing for Covid-19. The Cabinet Secretary also put Lancet Laboratories on the spot for issuing contradicting Covid-19 results severally. He promised that Ministry would review the laboratory with a view of taking measures against it. The CS urged Kenyans not to visit laboratories that were giving contradicting  results.