Technical and vocational training institutions will begin a phased reopening in September. Some 20,191 finalist diploma and certificate students will report on September 1 to write final exams cut short by the closure of learning institutions in March. The Kenya National Examination Council tests will take about two weeks in the first phase of the institutions' reopening. Julius Jwan, PS for Technical and Vocational Education told the Star the government will assess and mend any loopholes witnessed in the initial phase. "The institutions' heads have been meeting and the likely scenario is to have a phased reopening with only a few students," Jwan told the Star on Tuesday. Success in phase one will give a lifeline to the second phase a fortnight later for another batch of 182,000 students. All the 182,000 will also be gearing up for examinations previously scheduled for July but postponed. Their exams are now set to begin in December. “The second lot will join after the finalists are done with the exams. They also are lagging behind in their end of course exams that were set to take place in July,” Jwan said. Tom Mulati, a director in the Department of Technical and Vocational Education said they have told principals to ensure the institutions conform to health guidelines before reopening. Institutions must have clean running water and soap for handwashing or hand sanitiser at the minimum, upon reopening. Colleges will also be required to sanitise often-touched objects such as doorknobs, light switches and stair railings with disinfectant. Lecture halls and common spaces will need adequate space for social distancing where universities may put signs to require staff, students and limited interactive programmes. Non-academic functions undertaken by the institutions will also be deferred and movement inside and outside the institutions regulated. Other requirements are mandatory use of masks or face shields for learners, lecturers and non-teaching staff. Lastly, universities must have thermal guns for monitoring the temperatures of all persons entering the institutions and specific public spaces on campus. (edited by o. owino)