West Pokot doctors are calling on residents to donate blood for cancer and other patients because of an acute shortage. Health facilities and blood banks all over Kenya depend largely on schools for donations and schools have been closed since March because of Covid-19. Cancer and other patients in West Pokot are in need of blood. Healthy adults can donate blood about every two months. Speaking to press on Wednesday, Kapenguria medical superintendent Dr David Karuri said the hospital uses 20 to 40 units of blood per day. “Currently blood is a challenge, schools are our major donors but since they were closed due to the coronavirus, we have a shortage,” he said. Patient Deborah Cheyech, 13, is suffering from leukemia and needs a blood transfusion. Her father Jackson Lotiang said she has been in and out of the hospital for 13 years and depends on blood transfusions for survival. Deborah has been referred to India for a bone marrow transplant but the family cannot afford transportation and treatment. “The procedure requires more than Sh2.5 million and I am unable to raise the funds,” he said. Lotiang urged Kenyans to help his daughter. “I am totally broke because of the disease since we are in and out of hospital every two weeks, as her blood level keep fluctuating,” he said. Lotiang hails from Baringo county and he finds it difficult to arrive at the hospital on time when his daughter is sick. His wife is at home taking care of other children. “Due to poor roads and flooding, I spend a lot of money before reaching hospital since I come from a remote area. Sometimes we are forced to sleep on the way when rivers flood.” Dr Karuri urged the community to volunteer and donate blood to help save lives of many patients in need. He said the hospital reserves blood for emergency cases, pregnant women, children and cancer patients. “Blood expires after 35 days, that’s why we are calling on residents to frequently donate blood before schools open,” Dr Karui said. Because of the short expiry time, we can’t store much blood. The doctor thanked hospital staff for voluntarily donating blood. He urged those who have been requested to donate blood to save their beloved ones to donate more to help others in dire need. Dr Karuri said the hospital has been waiving fees for Cheyech since she has been a frequent patient and now her parents cannot pay her bills. He asked families to register with NHIF since it helps pay hospital bills. “We cannot waive bills for all cancer patients since the disease is costly and contributes to poverty. Families need to register with NHIF,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham) 