Researchers have advised against mining stones near homes and schools because of the dangerous levels of cancer-causing radiation found in some quarries. The four Kenyatta University researchers tested quarries in Nyamira and found more than 80 per cent of them exceeded safe levels. One quarry emitted ionising radiation that was 245 per cent higher than the limits recommended by the World Health Organization. "This causes a health risk to quarry workers and the general public," the researchers say in their study, published last month in 'Heliyon', an open access scientific journal. Dr Peterson Warutere, an environmental health expert who supervised the study, told the Star the highest risk is to quarry workers. "The high level of radioactive emissions recorded from the quarries may be due to materials not already mined, hence the fear of spread would be low. However exposure to quarry workers would be significant, and indeed it is," he said. The KU researchers noted that in the 2016 Nyamira [County] Hospital health records, cases of radiation-related sicknesses such as cancers, respiratory diseases, eye, and skin problems and dehydration among quarry workers and neighbouring community members accounted for 21 to 23 per cent of the disease burden. The miners can reduce the risk by wearing masks and wetting the dust before work. Dr Warutere said houses built using mined stones are not dangerous, if they have low levels. "The materials carried out of the quarries may be having low doses of radioactivity referred to as Permissible Limit, below which one is safe, above which there is significant exposure." WHO says nearly all natural building materials emit ionising radiation at low, harmless levels that are unlikely to increase the dose above the low levels of natural radiation that people receive on a daily basis. Natural ionising radiation comes from the sun's cosmic rays and from the earth's crust, including the soil. "Most often, natural background radiation exposure to the public is inevitable," says the KU study, done by Ruth Makori, a master's student. Jackim Nyamari and Wycliffe Arika also participated in the study. There are more than 110 accessible quarries in Nyamira and out of these, 40 were sampled for the study. "Only nine out of the 40 selected quarries had exposure levels below the acceptable standards, representing a dismal 22.5 per cent compliance," the researchers say. This is likely to be replicated in quarries across Kenya because the annual average effective radiation dose in Kenya is generally higher than the mean globally, the researchers said. The rise in the degree of ionising radiation may be ascribed to quarrying activities that can raise the natural background radiation levels by letting out buried materials containing naturally occurring radioactive materials onto the surface of the environment. "Considering that most building materials are never tested nor regulated prior to usage, it is therefore not clear what level of the radioactive particles are embedded in construction ballast, stones, rocks or sand, many of which have been used in constructing various houses for residence," the study says. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya