 Murang'a leaders have thrown their weight behind Peter Kenneth to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta as the Mt Kenya kingpin after 2022. Uhuru is set to retire in 2022 after serving his second and last term. At least eight bigwigs from his political backyard are gunning to fill the kingship void when the President leaves. Among those seeking to become the next political spokesman of the vote-rich region are Kenneth, former CS Mwangi Kiunjuri, Governors Anne Waiguru (Kirinyaga), Francis Kimemia (Nyandarua) and Mwangi wa Iria (Murang'a), Narck-Kenya leader Martha Karua and former presidential candidate Joseph Nyaga Health CS Mutahi Kagwe is also in the race. On Saturday, Murang'a Senator Irungu Kangata and MPs Mary Waithera (Maragua) and Nduati Ngugi (Gatanga) rallied behind Kenneth saying he has a national appeal and was capable of uniting the region. “Kenneth is a leader who is sellable to any part of the country and has a wealth of experience in development and political matters,” Waithera said. She said it was time for Murang’a to shine politically. Kang'ata asked Uhuru to appoint Kenneth to the Cabinet so he can help drive the President's Big Four Agenda. The three leaders spoke at Kiambamba Primary School in Maragua during a relief food distribution exercise. They said Kenneth is a development-oriented leader and could help the government achieve its vision if appointed. They said the former Gatanga MP deserves a position in government even if it means heading a parastatal. Kang,ata who is the Senate Majority leader said Uhuru was considering reshuffling his Cabinet and that Kenneth should be considered for appointment. Last month, Kang’ata announced Uhuru was keen on axing top government officials who did not support his development agenda. The purge, he said, would include Cabinet secretaries and parastatal heads facing criminal charges. The reshuffle was to follow the removal of rebel MPs from parliamentary committee leadership position. The government, Kang'ata said, seeks to deliver a new Kenya and this cannot be achieved when there are officials who undermine the handshake and the spirit of the Jubilee government. Nduati said Kenneth had already announced his readiness to work together with the President. “The President has made it clear that he wants people to work together with and focus on development and Kenneth has been his ardent supporter,” Nduati said. He said it is time for Murang’a to shine politically and this would only be achieved if local leaders work together. He said most Murang’a MPs have been working together since they were elected and that there are attempts to reach out to the few who do not. The unity, Nduati said, has made it possible for the leaders to lobby for development and impact the lives of their constituents positively. Nduati said Kenneth has demonstrated his capability as a leader after serving as Gatanga MP for two terms during which his constituency was rated the best in the management of CDF funds.  Edited by P.O