The government will not allow institutions of higher learning to re-open without meeting requirements for preventing Covid-19, Education CS George Magoha has said. He said the required standards - which are in the public domain - include adequate water points for proper hygiene, personal protective equipment (PPEs) and adherence to preventive measures given by the Health ministry. Magoha wants the institutions to have thermal guns, fit water points at the entrance areas like gates, dining halls, dormitories, class rooms and the kitchen. He argued that three deaths at the University of Nairobi as a result of Covid-19 were a wake-up call that no institution should compromise on preparedness. The CS also wants colleges to give more attention to non-teaching staff. “The government is taking the preparedness very seriously. Any college that doesn’t meet the required standards wouldn’t be allowed to reopen,” Magoha said. Speaking during preparedness assessment at Asumbi Teachers Training College in Rangwe constituency on Saturday, Magoha said the government has not cleared any public or private institution to reopen in September. He was accompanied by MP Lillian Gogo. Most institutions, Magoha said, are still preparing to meet the needed standards of preventing Covid-19. He said most colleges and universities are at between 60 and 80 per cent of preparedness. Institutions that are at 80 per cent have been advised to provide all the necessary materials before they are given approval letters, he said. He said Asumbi TTC is 65 per cent prepared. The CS also appealed to parents with children in private schools not to withdraw them from the schools. He argued that the jobs of more than 155,000 teachers may be affected should the parents remove their children from school. “I appeal to parents who are endowed not to allow the private schools to disintegrate and affect the teachers. Ordinarily, the schools perform better and their teachers also develop content,” he said. He urged the parents and the school managements to agree on the amount of fees they should pay to sustain the teachers. “We know the parents are currently allowing their children to be taught online. Let them also ensure the schools are well maintained,” the CS added. Gogo said her office is working closely with the college administration to ensure it meets the required standards. The MP donated 120 litres of sanitiser, adding that she will give 1,000 face masks to the college students. “We have noted down all that is needed for the college to resume learning activities. My office will provide what it can to ensure we meet the required standards,” Gogo said. The college deputy principal Beatrice Bironga said only 637 students who are in their final year will resume learning. "We're going to try our best to comply with the regulations before we reopen," Bironga said Edited by R.Wamochie