The 2017 world 1,500m champion has regretted an Athletics Integrity Unit whereabouts charge following three missed tests. The AIU said the African champion has a case to answer under Article  2.4 of the Anti-doping rules. The rule; Whereabouts Failures, captures any combination of three missed tests and/or filing failures, as defined in the International Standard for Testing and Investigations, within a twelve-month period by an athlete in a registered testing pool. Interestingly, it has emerged that the Commonwealth Games champion had entrusted a third party with the processes. “News of my suspension by the AIU for three missed tests is really devastating for me and I am still trying to get my head around it,”said Manang’oi said. He revealed that the charge dates back to 2019, the  year  he was plagued with injuries. “What I can say is that each of the missed tests happened during 2019. My case has nothing to do with prohibited substances and I’ve always competed as a clean athlete,” he said. “Last year was the worst period of my career when I was upset through injury which impacted everything on and off the track.” He observed that, just like those before him, he expected to be judged harshly but was apologetic to his coach Bernard Ouma and fellow athletes the Rongai Athletics Club. “I know I’ve let people down particularly my coach and fellow athletes and I also know that no matter what I say here, I’ll be criticised,” he observed. “The facts of the cases are clear in my mind and I’m sure there will be an appropriate time to go into more detail. Right now,  I’m focused on compiling a formal response to the AIU and I won't be commenting further.” Another Kenyan, Patrick Siele was informed that he has a case to answer under Article 2.3 — evading, refusing or failing to submit to sample collection. In addition, Kenneth Kipkemoi was banned for two years due the presence of a prohibited substance (Terbutaline) in a sample collected on September 12, 2019 while Mercy Kibarus was slapped with an eight-year ban following the presence of Norandrosterone in two urine samples collected on September 13 and 15, 2019. Kibarus was given a lengthy ban since it was her second Anti-Doping Rule Violation (ADRV) within a 10-year time frame. The two runners have been given a chance to appeal.