We need somebody ( a man or woman) to bring the entire Mt Kenya together but it is important to note that currently, there is no division as to the consensus candidate. Even when former President Mwai Kibaki was about to retire, there was an issue about who was to inherit his huge political mantle. By the time we (Mt Kenya) reach there (2022), things will have fallen into place. However, one thing for sure is that we want President Uhuru Kenyatta to still remain and function as a unifying leader for the region and he will work with other leaders. We are not short of leaders, actually it is only that we don’t want to start declaring that we want so and so (to lead us) and people declaring that ‘I want to be President of Kenya’. We are only saying now that we have the President, we cannot start coming out telling Kenyans we are still going for the presidency. There will be emerging alignments because of Building Bridges Initiative, which will bring a few extra seats. Definitely, our President is there to bargain for us on what suits us as a community in the BBI. So long us we are one, we will not miss in the next government. I do not think the President will exit the scene after serving his two terms in 2022. He will still be there; this is still a young man. He can still remain a party leader of the party forming the government. I said it during (Joseph) Kamaru’s funeral and that is now over one and half years – and people did not want to hear what I was saying at that time: That we will still consult him (Uhuru), even after retiring. Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria is a non-starter. You can have your own party but even in the last elections, how many people had  parties? (Mwangi) Kiunjuri had his but it didn't even make him a governor. One good thing with Kiunjuri — and he is saying it — is that he doesn’t want to vie for any seat like governor, Senate or an MP because he knows with his party alone and  without the blessings of Uhuru, there is nowhere he can go. It cannot sell anywhere; it will even be difficult to get even an MCA seat. The nominated MP spoke to the Star