The online world has offered fulfilling social participation to children living with disability during the Covid-19 pandemic. The growing number of rigorous remote learning programmes has also offered greater access to educational opportunities for students with disability. Mwambunu*, 13, was born with a physical disability that limits movement on his left side and consigns him to a wheelchair. He attends school in Thika. “He sometimes refuses to go to school because of the verbal and physical harassment he receives from classmates, including seclusion during breaks,” his mother says. Mwambunu says he cannot play with other children at school or at home. “Since the pandemic, children are staying at home. Like them, I play online games that do not require me to use my legs. I now feel like other children,” he says. One in 10 children in the world has a disability and less than 10 per cent of children with disability in low-income countries go to school. In Kenya, almost a third of children who do not receive primary school education have a disability. Besides poverty and prejudice, lack of access to assistive technology, inaccessible transport and inhospitable school environments are setbacks to their acquiring education. “These barriers restrict children with disability from accessing education and fully participating in the community,” says Unicef. Mwambunu’s mother says at school, only one teacher encourages her son to soldier on. The rest mostly discriminate against him. “I now follow classes online. I type my questions, comment and use emoticons without feeling sidelined. No one uses my disability against me during class,” Mwambunu says. Before Covid-19, the Std 4 pupil would miss classes when it rained as it is hard to move through the mud in his manual wheelchair. There are also days when he feels it's all too much to bear and stays at home. “Children with disability experience different forms of exclusion, which may cut them off from health, education and social services, and limit their participation in society,” Unicef says. However, Information and Communication Technology is increasingly levelling the playing field for persons with disabilities in terms of access to education and skills. “One with visual impairments can use speech-to-text functionality or software to read a website, one with hearing impairments can use SMS or instant text messaging to communicate. Those with mobility impairments can use voice recognition to navigate digital devices,” says Stephanie Osoro, a computer scientist. Osoro says students with disability can interact with teachers and peers using their communication devices, including text, instead of voice, electronic picture boards, instant messaging and conferencing tools. “When children with disabilities are given opportunities to flourish as any other children, they have the potential to lead fulfilling lives and to contribute to the social, cultural and economic vitality of their communities,” Unicef says. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya