The cold season is here. Nairobians are seen putting on heavy jackets and sweaters as they brace themselves for the cold. Nobody apart from the weatherman knows how much cold will hit Nairobi. With this kind of weather, Kenyans who have private vehicles are safer compared to those who commute daily using PSVs. With the changing habits due to the coronavirus, some scientists have claimed that the disease might be airborne. Which means that the virus can stay on air for long thus making anyone who passes that area susceptible to infection. Typically, in a PSV once the cold sets in, the conductor will close all the windows to ensure the passengers do not feel cold. But if one person is infected and does not wear a mask, then it means that the whole group in the matatu could be infected. Passenger Molline Auma who boarded a matatu from Uthiru to Westlands told the Star that closing windows is a normal phenomenon. "I think that it is a practice that we are used to. So we do not see anything wrong with it. Even today morning when I was leaving for work, all the windows were closed," she says. Auma said that as long as she put on her mask, everything was okay and that she was safe. "It is really cold out here and no one would want to sit in a matatu whose windows are open or partially open," she says. But speaking to the Star on the phone on Thursday, Nairobi Hospital doctor Joseph Aluoch said touts must ensure the windows are open. “In a matatu, you will get people laughing and others talking while putting their masks on their chins. They then release air from their breath and this can float for a period of time,” he said. “If you close all the windows because it is cold outside, chances are that everyone who is not wearing a mask or even those wearing will get infected.” Alouch noted that poor ventilation in confined indoor spaces is associated with increased transmission of respiratory infections. “The only way you can be safe is by at least opening the window if not the whole of it so that you can get some fresh air. It’s better to prevent getting the disease than openly being exposed to it,” he said. Covid-19 is thought to be primarily transmitted via respiratory droplets, however, an increasing number of reports implicate the role of aerosols. Aerosols consist of small droplets and droplet nuclei which remain in the air for longer than large droplets. Edited Henry Makori