ANC has dismissed as propaganda, reports that Musalia Mudavadi has overstayed in office as party leader. Deputy party leader Ayub Savula said Wednesday the party submitted all the necessary documents to the Office of the Registrar of Political Parties and they were accepted. He said those concentrating on ANC's internal affairs should instead ask when older parties like ODM, Kanu and Wiper held their elections, adding that ANC was only formed in the lead-up to the last general election. "The last time ODM attempted to hold an election was when there were 'men in black' and it aborted. When did Kanu, Narc and Wiper hold elections? Why are they keen on ANC? Give us a break, please,” Savula said. On June 26, the party, through a special governing council meeting, resolved that those whose terms of office had expired will remain in office until after the Covid-19 pandemic. It put off its elections by three years. "We have confidence in the Office of the Registrar of Political Parties and we know she is operating professionally. This cheap propaganda is being peddled by political rivals who are scared of Mudavadi's popularity at the moment and such a scheme will fail this time round," Savula told the Star on the phone. The Lugari MP said the party postponed its grassroots elections because of the Covid-19 protocols that restrict gatherings, a situation that cannot allow for elections. The virus also halted the party youth league polls that were underway, he added. Savula claimed the attacks against the ANC started soon after the party endorsed Mudavadi as its flag bearer in the 2022 presidential contest. "We have now allowed Mudavadi to negotiate for both pre-election and post-election coalitions in relation to the next general election,” he said. He said those who feel the party is a village entity should simply leave and join national parties of their choice. "If your house is a grass-thatched hut, you don't feel ashamed of it and instead show a visitor your neighbour's because it's better than yours. If you're not happy with the house you live in, you leave and put up a new one,” he said. He said Mudavadi has been targeted because of the widespread popularity he has gained in the past two years. Those attacking Mudavadi and dismissing him as a weakling are insincere, Savula said. “If someone is useless, you just leave him or her alone because he adds no value to your cause. Why attack him daily? You only fight a strong opponent you want to weaken,” he said. Edited by F'Orieny