The High Court in Busia has commuted the life sentence of a man convicted for defilement because his victim failed to express pain. In a ruling delivered on July 15, Justice Waweru Kiarie convicted the man of a lesser charge of attempted defilement and subsequently reduced the sentence to 10 years. The judge said the six-year-old would have been in great pain had she been defiled and would have not failed to show or mention it. Kiarie said "the silence of the girl on the issue of pain talked volumes." Fred Wanjala was convicted of defiling the six-year-old in September 2017. According to the girl’s mother, she found her daughter outside Wanjala’s house holding her skirt high. She noticed some white discharge around the girl's thighs. Wanjala is their neighbour. The girl said he had defiled her and left. “She never testified of making any observations of distress on her daughter. Had there been penetration, the child could have been in great pain and there was no way she was going to hide it,” the judge said. The child was taken to hospital where a report said she had indeed been defiled. The report cited the absence of the hymen and the presence of the whitish discharge. “The clinical officer’s evidence did not indicate whether the perforation of the hymen was recent. The absence of the hymen, therefore, does not support the contention that there was penetration,” Kiarie ruled. During trial, the child testified that she was defiled (alinifanyia tabia mbaya) by Wanjala but did not mention how she felt. “Though the prosecutor did not elicit from the child, the evidence of how she felt when the “tabia mbaya” was done to her, I would have expected her to mention it [pain]. I am therefore persuaded to find that the prosecution did not prove penetration,” the judge said. In an argument supported by the judge, Wanjala had denied having defiled the girl and contended that given the age of the complainant, she could not have withstood an adult’s penetration. “I have perused the evidence on record and it would appear that the clinical officer concluded that there was penetration due to the absence of the hymen. That alone cannot be proof of actual defilement,” Kiarie said. The judge however dismissed other grounds for which the convict sought acquittal, saying the court process was legal and fair. Wanjala in his appeal had claimed that he was not well conversant with Swahili language and that the court also failed to explain to him the gravity of the matter. “Though the record does not indicate in which language the complainant testified, the appellant cross-examined her at length. All the other witnesses testified in Kiswahili and he equally engaged them. It is therefore abundantly clear from the manner of cross-examination, that he understood Kiswahili language,” the judged ruled. The judge also noted that the court had no duty to advise Wanjala on how to conduct his defence. The role of the court being that of an arbitrator is not compatible with that of an adviser, he said. “Even in cases where “substantial injustice would otherwise result”, the court’s role is only to inform an accused person that he may need the services of an advocate,” Kiarie said.  Edited by P.O