The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission on Thursday arrested five Nandi county officials over a Sh19.781 million tender. The five; Henry Maritim Koech, Meshack Oreu Tankoi, Wilson Kipchirchir Yebei,  Henry Kibii Kirui and Leah Jelagat were involved in awarding a tender to a company belonging to one of them. The Commission's CEO Twalib Mbarak said the five are currently being held at Eldoret Central Police Station and will be arraigned at the Eldoret Anti-Corruption Court on Friday. Mbarak said the commission received reports of misappropriation of Sh19,781,551 at the County Government of Nandi in an award of a tender for Supply of Water Dispensers and Road Construction allegedly awarded to M/s Makiki Agencies Limited, a company owned by senior officials of the County. He said investigations established that the then Chief Officer for Finance and Economic Planning at the county authorised payments to the agency, a company he owned. The company had purportedly been contracted by the County to undertake an upgrade of roads. The purported award was facilitated by the Head of Procurement and other County Officials. "Recommendation upon concluding investigations, EACC submitted the Investigation Report to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) pursuant to Section 35 of the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act," he said. Twalib added, "The Director of Public Prosecutions independently reviewed the recommendations therein and granted consent to immediately arrest and charge the suspects with abuse of office and conflict of interest against the then Chief Officer Finance and Economic planning, Henry Maritim Koech". He said other charges will be a conspiracy to Commit an Offence of Corruption against all the individuals involved and fraudulent acquisition of Public Property against the then Chief Officer Finance and Economic Planning and Director of Makiki Agencies Limited, Mr Henry Maritim Koech. "They will also be charged with deceiving Principal against the Chairpersons and Secretaries of the Tender Committees, Henry Kibii Kirui, Meshack Oreu Tankoi, Henry Maritim Koech, Wilson Kipchirchir Yebei and Ms Leah Jelagat," he said. 