At least 36.7 per cent of youths in Nairobi and Bungoma counties anticipate an increase in abortions because of low access to contraceptives. This is according to a report by Form ni Gani initiative titled, 'Young voices on Covid-19 and contraception'. It was released in June. Form ni Gani is a youth-led creative movement in support of family planning advocacy in Kenya. The report explores the possible outcomes of the new reality brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic. It outlines possible ways to mitigate against low access to sexual and reproductive healthcare among vulnerable youth. "The role of contraception in achieving individual and national goals cannot be understated," the report says. "Contraception access can provide a ray of hope for Kenyan youth against the backdrop of a myriad of development challenges—including high unemployment, maternal deaths, and teenage pregnancy rates—that threaten to derail the country’s progress." Form ni Gani conducted phone interviews with 30 youths from both Nairobi and Bungoma to gain an understanding of how they approached contraception and their coping mechanisms in the time of the pandemic. Some of the major concerns raised by the youth include the closure of contraception access points such as chemists, loss of choice of contraception methods and closure of colleges and universities where they were offered free contraception such as condoms. Others are a shortage of condoms supply in government health facilities and fear of contracting Covid-19 in hospitals. "In Kenya, existing disparities in access to contraception are likely to deepen. In some counties that underwent lockdown, contraception prevalence rates were already concerningly low," the report reads. Mandera has a rate of less than 10 per cent, Kilifi just under 35 per cent, while Kwale and Mombasa range between 35 per cent and 45 per cent. "Among the concerning outcomes of disparities in access is a rise in teenage pregnancies from the current 13,000 annually," the report says. For perspective, Sierra Leone saw teenage pregnancies rise from 30 per cent to as high as 65 per cent during the Ebola crisis. Previously served segments of the population, such as women who have recently given birth, are now at a risk. In Kisumu county, for example, there was a reduction in the number of women visiting post-delivery family planning clinics, according to the National Nurses Association of Kenya. The report recommends a shift in the positioning of contraception from a basic right to a holistic essential service. "It is therefore imperative to explore ways of ensuring that Kenyans have access to comprehensive contraception choices that match their means and needs, and enable them to protect their health and futures," it reads. The Kenyan view of contraception and health in general focuses on curative care rather than prevention, resulting in negative health outcomes that could have been averted. "Approaching contraception as an integral part of Kenyans’ healthcare would better enable youth to plan their lives around their personal and career goals, which in turn would have a positive domino effect on the economy and help reduce poverty," the report says. It also recommends financing for healthcare and contraception and re-assessment of the supply chain. Healthcare in Kenya is highly dependent on imported pharmaceuticals, and this extends to contraception, which Kenya does not produce. This exposes the country to extreme shocks when production lines and delivery timelines from external sources are impacted by unforeseen occurrences. Edited by Henry Makori