The Central Bank of Kenya has declared Jacob Ngwele as the only recognised signatory holder to the Nairobi County Assembly's three accounts. The move came after the bank received several letters from Speaker Beatrice Elachi seeking to remove Ngwele as a signatory and requesting new persons to be mandated as holders. Elachi had sought the assembly’s principal accountant Sammy Ndana and senior finance officer Paul Kimani as to be authorisers and signatories to the three accounts held at CBK. However in a letter dated July 16,2020 CBK through its Counsel Kennedy Abuga acknowledged that Ngwele will remain as the signatory to the accounts. “In August 2015, Mr Jacob Ngwele Muvengei was duly introduced as a CBK mandate holder. Any changes in the mandates can only be effected in accordance with the law,” reads the letter in part. Abuga noted that the purpose of the letter was to clarify that CBK will continue to deal with, and act on instructions from the legal mandate holders for the assembly accounts. Section 148(4) of the Public Finance Management Act, provides that the clerk of a county assembly is the accounting officer of the assembly and as such, the sole official with mandate to operate and issue instructions to CBK relating to the assembly bank accounts. The letter was addressed to Speaker Elachi and copied to Ngwele, Nairobi County Executive for Finance Allan Igambi and Solicitor General Kennedy Ogeto. CBK further observed that confusion could arise due to the many letters it receives, threatening to weaken control and pose a potential loss of public funds. To avoid any loss of public funds, CBK has declared that going forward mandate holders of the accounts will required to go physically to the bank and authenticate in person, any instructions they have presented to them for action. “CBK will not accept any communication or messages relating to the accounts held, if not from the authorised mandate holders,” Abuga said. Nairobi MCAs and county assembly workers are yet to receive their June salaries as wrangles over signatories to the exchequer persisted. Last week, Elachi obtained a temporary order from the Employment and Labour Relations court directing the CBK to reinstate Ndana and Kimani as authorisers and signatories to the assembly’s accounts at CBK. However, CBK declined to do so with the case still in court and will be heard on August 3, 2020. Elachi and Ngwele have been embroiled in wrangles to control the Office of the Clerk since last year November. The MCAs voted not to recognise Ngwele as the clerk and had his name revoked. Ngwele had been removed from the position of county assembly clerk last December. This was after Elachi obtained a green light from the Attorney General to replace the clerk after she accused Ngwele of having absconded duty and disciplinary action had been instituted against him. However, Ogeto wrote to Elachi stating that as per a court ruling on October 30, 2019, where Ngwele had been reinstated as clerk of the assembly. He disclosed that Elachi had lied to the AG and in the process withdrew a recommendation to the National Treasury to effect the changes. In April, Ngwele was returned as the assembly’s accounting officer and reinstated as the assembly's signatory to its IFMIS account and at the CBK. However, Elachi did not approve Ngwele’s come back and as a result problems have persisted in the county assembly with MCAs and staff going without salaries. MCAs blamed the county treasury for Ngwele's return despite him being considered "a stranger" after the assembly adopted a report on his removal. Last month, the assembly service board advertised vacancy in the office. Speaker Elachi said the assembly has never recruited a substantive clerk since its inception in 2013. However, last week the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission said the 2014 appointment of Jacob Ngwele as the Nairobi County Assembly clerk was above board and within the law. This was after the anti-graft agency concluded a seven-month investigation. Elachi had written to the EACC asking the agency to investigate the appointment which, she said, was irregular.