Jambojet has introduced a Progressive Web App (PWA) in its latest efforts to digitise its services. The application will allow customers to book tickets, check-in, and access their boarding pass on their smartphones. Jambojet Head of Information Systems Benjamin Collins said the PWA, which is available on both Android and iOS, will offer convenience to customers while streamlining processes, to save time and help reduce physical touchpoints. This is in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, where social distancing is encouraged, with person-to-person contact discouraged, to reduce the spread of the virus. “Unlike the standard mobile apps or the web, PWAs consume fewer data and are reliable even in uncertain network conditions. This is part of our commitment to continue offering innovative solutions that are responsive to our customer needs,” Collins said. The app is targeting Kenya’s increasingly digital population who evidently want to save time as they prepare for travel, the carrier said in a statement on Monday. “We will keep updating the app with more functionalities to streamline the customer journey,” Collins said. With the PWA, customers are able to receive notifications of upcoming trips, track their flight status, and receive automated updates on any delays or changes to their itinerary. Progressive Web Apps are web applications that attempt to combine features offered by most modern browsers with the benefits of a mobile experience. The app is already available on Android and iOS. Jambojet resumed domestic flights last Wednesday after cessation of movement into and out of the Nairobi Metropolitan Area and Mombasa were lifted, allowing travel between its Jomo Kenyatta International Airport hub and different destinations across the country. The regional low-cost carrier is operating three daily flights to Mombasa, two to Kisumu, two to Eldoret, one to Malindi, and four weekly flights to Diani. The frequencies will be reviewed regularly to respond to the changes in demand across the markets, management said. The Transport Ministry has developed protocols with best practices on conducting commercial air transport that will see aviation players observe the highest levels of safety and wellbeing of the customers and staff. “We want to assure our customers that we will follow the safety guidelines put in place to offer our customers a safe and pleasant flying experience,” Jambojet acting Managing Director, Karanja Ndegwa, said.