@Yobramos4 Jomvu MP Badi Twalib on Friday denied claims that funds for the Jomvu Kuu Primary School grounds upgrade have been misspent and there's nothing to show for the works. Frustrated residents say it looks as though they are building an inland container  depot not sporting grounds. Twalib said the grounds, which are also used by the community with artificial turf,  building stands with canopies for the fans and laying down a running track. A water system will be installed for players, officials and fans. “Those saying money has been embezzled in the project should go to the government website and see what the project is and how much was allocated for it. Do not jump the gun,” Twalib said. He spoke at the burial of Aziza Kajembe, the first wife of former Changamwe MP Ramadhan Kajembe, who died on Friday morning. On Tuesday, politician Paul Wanyama led a group of sports people in condemning the current state of the grounds. They claimed Sh4 million had been spent but there was nothing to show for it. The grounds have been compacted with gravel on the playing surface, but it is not usable in  its current state.  Wanyama said it residents are being denied a field to play on. “Our children and women who exercise here in the morning might get hurt. Is this  worth Sh4 million? We are not fools,” he said. Coach Alex Aleke, whose team used to practise on the grounds before the Covid-19 pandemic, said they would prefer grass saying it's hard to maintain grounds of artificial grass. MP Twalib said it is not their responsibility to maintain to ground. He said all government projects are undertaken in phases and the first phase of the rehabilitation works has only taken Sh1.2 million and not the Sh4 million they claim. “If they knew where to get all this information, they would not be speaking from ignorance,” Twalib said. “Those saying money is missing should should go to the government website, see the project and the allocation. Don't jump the gun," he said. He said Jomvu Kuu Primary, where he studied and played sport,has a special place in his heart and he would not do any fishy deal over it. He used to play right-back and was nicknamed Cafu. Twalib said all the other subcounties had grounds carpeted by the county government but Jomvu subcounty missed out. “That is why we earmarked Jomvu Kuu Primary School grounds to be our project for upgrade to be on par with Bomu stadium, Uwanja wa Mbuzi stadium and the others,” Twalib said. Apart from Bomu Stadium in Changamwe subccounty and Uwanja wa Mbuzi in Nyali subccounty, other carpeted grounds include Kisauni Primary grounds in Kisauni subscounty and Mvita grounds in Mvita subcounty. “We must move with the times. We cannot play on clay all our lives when people are progressing. I know carpeted ground is new but people  will get used to it when they start using it,” Twalib said. He said the government only allows use of two per cent of the CDF funds for sports, which is not enough. “We will use all means possible to ensure we get more funds to upgrade these grounds," Twalib said. Three classrooms were razed and replaced by modern ones. Twalib had water tanks installed to end the water shortage. A perimeter wall was built with CDF funds. “This has to be a model school. Jomvu also deserves the best,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)