The Kenya Secondary Schools Heads  Association is warning that closed, cashless and abandoned schools will be uninhabitable when learning resumes. The association said failure by the government to release the capitation funds meant the schools had been forced to send all the supporting staff away. Some have had to do away with income-generating projects like livestock rearing. Already, several schools in Nakuru county have advertised the sale of their livestock, including dairy cattle and pigs, as they do not have funds to pay the support staff. Security firms manning the learning institutions have also started pulling out due to lack of payment, putting at risk property worth millions of shillings. Some schools have been vandalised, looted. Kessha Nakuru county chair Fredrick Mbuthia said the challenges facing the schools were rising by the day. He said since the pandemic was reported and schools closed down, the government had not released any supporting funds. “Some schools which have income-generating projects have been forced to sell the assets as they are no longer viable during this period,” Mbuthia e said. He added that over 10,000 Board of Management teachers and supporting staff had not been paid, further worsening the situation. Mbuthia added that when schools reopen, they would be faced with pending bills worth millions of shillings due to the pandemic. “Due to lack of funds, we cannot pay the statutory deductions, meaning a fine when we repay while paying for security services is a major problem,” he said. The chair called for urgent support from the state, saying if no action was taken the schools would be in a deplorable state. “Currently, schools are covered by bushes and electricity supply has been disconnected due to non-payment,” he said. Stega Security Services managing director Eskimos Kobia admitted that they had gone for months without payment despite offering security services to the schools. He said that his company had offered to guard the schools' property for the first two months but this was now becoming impossible. “We understand schools have not received funding from the government due to the current crisis and we have no option but to pull out,” he said. Kobia said guards who were coming into the first contact with visitors in various institutions had been forgotten in the fight against the spread of the disease. (Edited by o. o.)