The Kenya Wildlife Service has defended its move to administer hormonal contraceptive implants in six lionesses at the Lewa Conservancy. On Thursday last week, KWS announced that the birth control strategy was to reduce predation of endangered species. “The lion reigns supreme on the Food Chain. To maintain this balance, @kwskenya vet Dr. M. Mutinda, deployed a hormonal contraceptive implant (prevents conception for a year) in an immobilised 5-year-old lioness at @lewa_wildlife. #SustainingAllLife #WildlifeKe,” KWS said on its official Twitter handle. The move by KWS caused up roar. Lydiah Kinyanjui posed, “Was the Lioness consulted whether she wants contraceptives?! Again, men calling the shots! Why not do it to the Mr Lion instead?! PATRIARCHY!!” Picolo said, "This is so wrong. Totally against the law of the wild. Let nature take its course. Why alter what the ecosystem needs? The lion population is decreasing in number. Why go ahead and aid in further decreasing its population?" "Why can't you let nature take it's course, like they say survival for the fittest..in any ecosystem there is a way nature balances everything.. anyway I hope it won't have side effects," Edwin Okero said. However, KWS acting director Biodiversity, Research and Planning Dr Patrick Omondi said the move, which is being done on a pilot basis, was in the best interest of the species. He said the KWS board had approved the piloting of the exercise. Omondi said the Lewa Conservancy is home to both critically endangered black rhinos and Grevy’s zebra. “It is being done to manage species conflict,” he told the Star on the phone. Omondi said the International Union for Conservation of Nature Cat Specialist Group does not allow for the translocation of lions. “They [lions] will take time to learn the new prey environment and end up preying on easy prey like livestock and get poisoned,” he said. Omondi said other ways of controlling their population such as sport hunting is illegal in the country. “Culling is also inhuman,” he added. Lewa said the black rhino population is steadily recovering and there are now over 600 black rhinos in Kenya. However, even with marked progress, the black rhino remains critically endangered. The Conservancy said there were over 15,000 Grevy’s zebras in the late 1970s, but hunting and poaching drastically reduced their population over the years. A 2016 census results indicated that Kenya is now home to 2,350 Grevy’s zebras, 90 per cent of the world’s population. Omondi said there are 2,400 lions as per new lion and spotted strategy set to be launched soon. He said if the new way of controlling the population works, it will help manage the population of the species. Edited by A.N