The future of work seems to have come sooner than expected as corporates and individuals are forced to work from home. Covid-19 has taken us on a new path, forcing us to learn new lessons. In fact, one lesson to take home from this pandemic is that innovation is inevitable. According to the International Labour Organisation-Eurobond report of May 2020, the expanding use of digital technologies for work at home and elsewhere is rapidly transforming the traditional model of work. This model has improved work-life balance in some ways, reduced commuting costs as well as boosted work performance for both employers and employees. Closer home, many companies, schools, marketers, techpreneurs, workers, business leaders and organisations have adopted this new model. This is indeed a remarkable move for business sustainability. However, the need of innovation for many corporates is not new. For a considerable period of time now, we have seen government institutions adopting innovation-led approaches. The government through the Konza Technopolis under the ICT ministry has been spearheading this drive for several years. For corporates, one fundamental way to adjust to innovation remains teamwork and cooperation. Sometime back, I read about innovation hub programme that was being undertaken by employees of a certain company in driving the organisation’s business activities. It comprises a platform where any member of the company can log in, drop his/her idea and let the rest of the members make observations or contributions about it. So far, the programme has generated more than 738 concepts, with 34 of these ideas have been patented and implemented. These steps are among the few approaches that corporates ought to borrow and adopt since everything is going digital. It is important to note that in 2018, the Atlas of Innovation for Economic Stability recognised Kenya as one of the countries emerging as a hotspot of technology enabled innovations that support a more inclusive economy. Not so long ago, we also noted other institutions coming up with innovative apps as well as other digital tools to enhance their businesses. That said, now, more than ever, it is important for corporates to adopt, create and nurture innovation culture to drive businesses into sustainability. Nakuru