More than 60,000 evictees from Maasai Mau Forest have appealed to President Uhuru Kenyatta to resettle them. Led by Mau Evictees chair Christopher Bore, they said that it is only the President who has the final say on the Mau issues. Bore told the press in Mulot on Saturday that they have experienced untold suffering since eviction eight months ago and are ready to sit down with the President and give lasting solutions to the issues. “We voted for the Jubilee administration in 2013 and 2017 elections and we are fully supporting the President’s agenda on improving the lives of Kenyans. “We are seeking dialogue with him for the current woes we are undergoing after we were ejected from our homes last year,” Bore said. He said that the settlers have genuine title deeds and the Jubilee leaders told them during the election period to support them as no one will be kicked out of the farm. “Since we were evicted, the families’ lives were disrupted; the children have been denied their right to education and we are living in makeshift camps. The situation has been worsened by this coronavirus pandemic and the evictees have been losing their lives because they are spending their nights in cold,” he said. The retired senior chief warned politicians from the region to stop using the Mau issues for political mileage. “These politicians are fond of using the Mau as a tool to get votes every electioneering period and we are telling them to keep off this issue because they are the ones causing a lot of problems instead of solutions. We will not allow them to interfere us as we seek the government’s interventions to address the challenges we are facing,” Bore said. Former Sogoo councillor Kipkose Rotich said that the lives of many evictees are at risk due to the Covid-19 because they are living in camps and have no food to feed on as well as a source of income. “I urge Baringo Senator Gideon Moi and Chama Cha Mashinani leader Isaac Rutto to present their grievances to the President so that the evictees can get help and return to their normal lives,” Kipkose said. Eric Bett, an evictee, urged the President to hear their pleas. 