Nairobi MCAs and county assembly workers are yet to receive their June salaries as wrangles over signatories to the exchequer persist. On Tuesday, Labour and Relations court judge Hellen Wasilwa ordered Central Bank to reinstate Sammy Ndana and senior finance officer Paul Wainaina as signatories to the Nairobi county assembly exchequer accounts. CBK has not effected the order. The order directs that the two be authorisers of three accounts – 1000286587, 1000193538 and 1000286598 – held with CBK through the Integrated Financial Management System and Internet Banking, and make payments out of money already voted for but unexpended in 2019-2020. Minority leader David Mberia confirmed that legislators are yet to get their June salaries. “The issues surrounding the signatories to CBK are the ones delaying the processing of salaries for members. There was a court order issued earlier this week stating who should be the signatories and we are hoping that it will be implemented so we can get paid,” he said. The assembly resumed its sittings last month after a three-month recess during which members did not receive two months' salaries as a result of the tussle over the office of the clerk. The problem has been aggravated by the return of clerk Jacob Ngwele as the accounting officer on Governor Mike Sonko's instructions in April. He was reinstated as the assembly's signatory to its IFMIS account and at the CBK. Ngwele had been removed from the position of county assembly clerk last December. MCAs blamed the county treasury for Ngwele's return despite him being considered "a stranger" after the assembly adopted a report on his removal. Last November, the MCAs voted not to recognise Ngwele as the clerk and had his name revoked. Last month, the assembly service board advertised a vacancy in the office. Speaker Beatrice Elachi said the assembly has never recruited a substantive clerk since its inception in 2013. In a letter dated December 27, 2019, Solicitor General Kennedy Ogeto wrote to Elachi stating that as per a court ruling on October 30, 2019, Ngwele had been reinstated as clerk of the assembly. He pointed out that on November 26, 2019, the Employment and Labour Relations Court had suspended the appointment of Monica Muthami, or any other person, as acting clerk. “A letter dated December 18, 2019, addressed to the National Treasury with a copy to you, we advised that Mr Ngwele is the de jure clerk to the County Assembly, on the basis of the consent recorded in the Employment and Labour Relations Court Petition No. 194 of 2019 on October 30, 2019,” reads the letter.