A dispute has erupted between the Nyandarua executive and the county assembly over the engagement of casuals in the Health department. The county assembly has accused the executive of plotting to sack 890 casual workers on the grounds of redundancies — a claim dismissed by the department. On Wednesday, speaker Wahome Ndegwa told the house that a letter declaring the workers redundant had been sent to the County Public Service Board and would take effect on Wednesday, July 1, 2020. He said he had told Health executive Njenga Mungai and chief officer Nelson Kimilu to rescind the decision, failing which the assembly will have no choice but to overturn it. Ndegwa said the only reason given by the county administration for the ‘layoffs’ is that the workers were casual labourers and had worked for more than three months. “Some of the workers have actually worked for the government for more than 20 years. Once you have served for more than three months in an institution, you gain the new status of employment. You cannot be declared a casual when the law says otherwise,” Ndegwa said. The motion to overturn the decision will be moved by Njabini Kiburu MCA Kiiru Gachomba next Tuesday if no amicable solution is found. On Wednesday evening, however, Dr Mungai dismissed Ndegwa's statement as misleading. He said the county is not, and has never, intended to sack anybody but is only taking measures to comply with labour laws. “The county government inherited these diligent workers when Governor Francis [Kimemia] came to power in 2017 and has not sacked or dismissed any of them except on disciplinary grounds. Labour laws demand that casual workers break for a short period of time before resuming or signing new contracts,” the executive said. In a letter dated June 29 and addressed to the county director of health, subcounty directors of health services, and medical superintendents at both J.M. Kariuki and Engineer hospitals, chief officer Kimilu indicates that casuals can only be engaged for a maximum of three months as per the labour laws. Their work can only be renegotiated after 60 days have elapsed from the date the previous engagement ended. “You are advised to follow the above guidelines starting July 1, 2020, and the rule is applicable to casuals completing three months contract period from June 30, 2020,” the letter reads. Mungai was, however, noncommittal as to whether all the 890 workers will get back their jobs after the expiry of the 60 days. "Each health facility has a management committee or board. It is those boards which are mandated to look into how a worker behaved in the last three months and decide whether to renew the contract or not,” he said. Meanwhile, 89 casual workers who were inherited from the defunct local government have a reason to be happy after the Nyandarua government employed them on contract. Acting county secretary and head of county public service Stephen Njoroge said the 89, who are in various departments, will serve a one-year contract that came into effect on Wednesday. “We shall start with a one-year contract. We will eventually escalate the contract for those who perform as will be determined by continuous evaluation,” he said Njoroge said the county required their services, hence there was no need to have them as casuals. He said Governor Kimemia has the interest of the workers at heart and knows that the best services cannot be given when people are unhappy or feel oppressed.  (Edited by F'Orieny)