Most projects started in Western by the jubilee administration stalled because the region could not engage President Uhuru Kenyatta directly, National Assembly Majority chief whip Emmanuel Wangwe has said. Wangwe on Monday said those in Jubilee from the region had to go through Deputy President William Ruto to reach the President for any development project. MPs John Waluke (Sirisia), Didmus Barasa (Kimilili), Dan Wanyama (Webuye West), Fred Kapondi (Mt Elgon), Ben Washiali (Mumias East), Bernard Shinali (Ikolomani), Wangwe and Malulu Injendi (Malava) were elected on the Jubilee ticket in the 2017 General Election. "You know that the DP has his own constituency of the Rift Valley and if you have to send him for what you want and he also wants his, he will address his needs first, before attending to those for his neighbour" the Navakholo MP told the Star on the phone. He said last week's meeting between Western governors and President Kenyatta at his Harambee House office was critical in ensuring the completion of the stalled projects and revival of the region's economy. "We're happy that now the leadership is talking to the President directly and we want him to move in and have the projects fast tracked," he said. Some of the stalled projects in the region include the Lurambi-Nambacha-Musikoma Road  that links Kakamega and Bungoma counties, which was started four years ago and the Kakamega-Bungoma bulk water project that is supposed to serve Webuye East and West, Bumula, Lurambi, Navakholo, Matungu, Malava, Kanduyi and Mumias East subcounties. There is also the Lower Nzoia irrigation project in Busia county, which was to mitigate against perennial flooding and encourage farming. Wangwe said the water project will increase access to clean drinking water by the population in the nine constituencies. He noted that the decision by the government to waive all debts the sugar companies owe state agencies and the stoppage of sugar importation will speed up recovery of the sector, which is the economic main stay of the region. President Kenyatta met governors Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega), Wycliffe Wangamati (Bungoma), Wilber Ottichilo (Vihiga), Patrick Khaemba (Trans-Nzoia), Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa and Cotu boss Francis Atwoli on Wednesday. Oparanya and Wamalwa on Saturday said their engagement with the government had started paying off following the announcement of the waiver of sugar millers’ Sh62 billion debts. Edited by EKibii