Kitui legislators have urged residents to be cautious while receiving visitors from counties recording high cases of the coronavirus. Their remarks came three days after President Uhuru Kenyatta lifted the partial lockdown on Nairobi, Mombasa and Mandera counties. Mwingi West MP Charles Nguna lauded Uhuru for reopening the economy and allowing resumption services in churches and mosques. However, Nguna urged Kenyans to be careful now that there is movement in and out of the areas highly hit by the virus. They risk being infected if they don’t strictly adhere to the guidelines set by the Ministry of Health to curb the pandemic. The legislator said that it was perturbing how most Kenyans were treating the pandemic casually, with many not wearing a mask even in public places. Nguna spoke at Migwani Secondary School after issuing bursary cheques worth Sh28 million to secondary school within his constituency. His counterpart from Mwingi Central Gideon Mulyungi said he supports reopening of the economy for better livelihoods. However, he urged residents living in the villages to take extra care while receiving visitors from high-risk counties. “Ensure you follow all set precautionary measures by the Health Ministry and although you had missed your relatives who will start visiting, ensure you do not hug them,” Mulyungi said. Kitui Central’s Makali Mulu told villagers to observe all precautionary guidelines as they receive their relatives who had been locked in other counties. “For those travelling to rural areas, personal responsibility is of utmost importance to ensure rural residents remain safe, especially the elderly,” Makali said. He insisted it was time for every Kenyan to be the other’s keepers by strictly observing Ministry of Health guidelines to combat the spread of Covid-19. He also lauded the President’s move of lifting cessation of movement, stating it will revive the almost collapsing economy as Kenyans had suffered severely in the past three months. Kitui West MP Edith Nyenze also asked residents of rural areas to be careful as they welcome their relatives from Nairobi, Mombasa and Mandera counties. Kitui Woman Representative Irene Kasalu told residents and Kenyans at large that Covid-19 is a reality and they have to learn to live with it as the country awaits a cure. “I request people to test before going and to travel when it is necessary,” the MP said. Edited by Henry Makori