A special sitting of a Nandi county assembly committee convened to discuss another team's conduct turned chaotic on Friday. Members banged on tables, shouted and jeered at each other after one of them called for the removal of committee chairpersons over corruption claims. Members of the Powers and privileges committee, chaired by the speaker, said an ad hoc committee's report on World Bank-funded projects was doctored. The Sh177 million World Bank-funded Kenya Urban Support Programme has delayed for two years. The ad hoc committee had been tasked to investigate. Chairman Kipkirui Chepkwony (Tinderet) and his eight members were asked to explain why their original report was altered. The members include Fred Kipkemboi, Walter Teno, Cynthia Muge, Joshua Ng’etich, Robert Kirwa, Robert Cheruiyot and Gideon Koech. Emmanuel Rono (Lessos) said he will table a motion to relieve some committee chairpersons of their positions. “Mr Speaker, these are some of the people who have put this assembly into a state of disrepute and should be removed to end impunity. They no longer serve the people but personal urge,” he said. Teresa Maiyo said residents deserved better services. Kipkemboi, who is the MCA for Kapsabet town, said residents were not getting value for money in the Kenya Urban Support programme and urged the EACC to investigate. “The ongoing upgrade programme of the town is a sham. Money was paid before the projects were done and the term of the contractor elapsed and yet work is going on, why?” he asked. At some point members nearly went for each other's necks as speaker Joshua Kiptoo struggled to maintain control. “Members, listen to the chair…We cannot continue under this kind of environment and I’m adjourning [the meeting] for an hour,” an exasperated Kiptoo finally ruled. The Powers and privileges committee had recommended that the ad hoc committee receive a verbal warning for breaching standing orders. The committee was found to have erred by doctoring its original report. The county representatives found it “too lenient” and accused it of compromising the standing orders and the integrity of the assembly. The Kapsabet municipal management has denied misappropriating money and said the works are being done as per the Bill of Quantities. Town manager David Sum and his deputy Isaiah Keter informed the ad hoc committee that the projects were on their final stages. They include a four-kilometre footpath, seven high mast lighting,  an ablution block and the recarpeting of the Kapasabet bus park. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya