Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has told the county assembly to reconsider its budget proposals and approve the actual estimates by her office. Waiguru said the move to slash her budget estimates is likely going to put the county in a fix. This comes barely a month after a Senate committee saved Waiguru from being ousted following MCAs' move to impeach her. The committee failed to agree with the charges brought by the MCAs against Waiguru, therefore shelving the impeachment bid. The governor on Monday said instead of the assembly approving the estimates presented by her office, it submitted a completely new budget with a variation of over 30 per cent per vote. This, she said, goes against the requirement of Regulation 37(1) of the Public Finance (County Government) Regulations 2015 which limits the assembly variations to one per cent of the ceilings. "Apart from this being illegal, I cannot approve the specific alterations done to the budget," she said. According to Waiguru, the assembly moved over Sh300 million meant to pay salaries for health workers to construct ward offices. "This is completely unacceptable given that the health workers have put their lives on the line to fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and it would further put the lives of Kirinyaga residents in danger for not being able to access health services," Waiguru said. Waiguru further accused the assembly of removing Sh20 million meant for payment of wages for the county's casual workers. She said the casual workers are critical in cleaning health facilities, especially during this Covid-19 period. "The assembly removed Sh14.6 million for fuel for ambulances, water bills and oxygen for our hospitals. This is unacceptable since it means paralysing operations in our critical health sector," she said. Waiguru said the MCAs removed Sh58 million meant for payment of taxes to KRA which is a contravention of the law and will result to penalties. She said last week the president signed into law the Office of the County Attorney Act which requires that counties have fully  staffed and funded County Attorney office to handle legal matters in the county. "The Assembly removed Sh59 million meant for legal fees which will hamper the county government's efforts in pursuing the over 200 cases mostly on recovering public land," Waiguru said. The governor said the MCAs further removed Sh30 million meant for payment of pending bills which is a contravention of a presidential directive set as a condition for accessing the exchequer for the county. "I have already appealed to the Senate, the Controller of Budget and the national Jubilee Party leadership to intervene and save the county from grinding into a halt," she said. She added, "I urge the county Assembly to reconsider their proposals and put the people of Kirinyaga first".