Kenya recorded four Covid-19 deaths on Monday as virus cases rose to 13,771. This raises the number of deaths to 238. A total of 418 more people tested positive in the last 24 hours. The new positives were drawn from the 2,784 people whose samples were tested within 24 hours. Health CAS Rashid Aman said in terms of gender 263 are males and 155 are females. Age wise, the youngest is a one year old , while the oldest is 86 years. A total of 292 of the new cases are from Nairobi, while Kiambu has 54. On a positive note, 494 patients had recovered from the disease, bringing  the total number of recoveries in the country so far to 5,616. Aman hit out at politicians hell-bent on flouting safety directives. This comes as Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja was arrested over the weekend for flouting curfew rules after he was caught at Ladies Lounge in Kilimani past 1am. Police also dispersed a meeting being attended by former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale, who poured water on cops who tried to stop the meeting. On Saturday, CS Mutahi Kagwe urged Kenyans to save each other from the virus as the numbers of positive cases go up by the day. He said personal responsibility means saving yourself and saving another person. "This disease is here with us. We must invest to fight the virus and take individual responsibility to save your child, your mother, your father, your friend. Let’s save each other." "You save me, I save you. That is what is called personal responsibility. If we agree, we are going to save each other. Take the responsibility of saving your family, friends and the public in general. And by observing the containment measures we can do that," Kagwe said. Meanwhile,President Uhuru Kenyatta has scheduled an extraordinary session of the National County Government Coordination Summit on Friday, following a surge in coronavirus cases. In a statement on Monday, Uhuru said the session will entail checking the counties' state of preparedness. "The Session has been convened following a surge of Covid-19 infections across our Nation; with the disease having now manifested in 44 of our 47 counties," the statement signed by State House spokesperson Kanze Dena-Mararo said.