It seems there is no end to the elusive Luhya unity talk as tho camps in Western pull their way, with more vigour. This is amidst counteraccusations from the camps as 2022 politics gains momentum. Some ANC and Ford Kenya affiliated politicians say the two parties will remain strong despite efforts to destabilise them. In a joint statement read by Nambale MP John Bunyasi on Sunday, the leaders warned politicians out to weaken the vote-rich region to prepare for a tough political duel ahead of 2022 elections. They said ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi’s resolve to vie for the presidency in 2022 has strong backing in the region and threats of intimidation directed at ANC and Ford Kenya leaders and their supporters will not succeed. The politicians spoke after holding a meeting at Nambale MP John Bunyasi’s home. Among those who attendance were Mudavadi, Moses Wetang'ula and MPs, Ayub Savula (Lugari), Chris Wamalwa (Kiminini), Ferdinand Wanyonyi (Kwanza) and Sabatia’s Alfred Agoi. Mudavadi and Wetang'ula and a host of MPs have formed a parallel political league away from one led by Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega), Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka and governors Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia) and Bungoma’s Wycliffe Wangamati. Both groups are actively mobilising for support ahead of the 2022 General Election, with each accusing the other of masterminding a plan to ‘haggle  and auction’ the Western vote for individual political gain. “We have come home as Western leaders first because our journey to make Kenya a better country must begin at home in the manner in which charity always begins at home,” the MPs' statement said. “In this regard, we are awake to the sinister machinations that have been hatched to destabilise the political kingpins of this region. Kenyans have seen the externally driven efforts to rock ANC and Ford Kenya parties — efforts that specifically target Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula.” “We want to tell the owners of these machinations that you cannot sponsor a strange creature into the stable and turn it into a horse, if it is not a horse. The attempts to impose non-leaders upon the peoples of Western Kenya are doomed to fail, from the start,” the statement added. The leaders said the sinister motives by some leaders within and outside Western to weaken ANC and Ford Kenya will strongly be resisted throughout the country beginning with the four counties of Busia, Bungoma, Kakamega and Vihiga. They said they have chosen to walk into the future and to 2022 as a solid bloc from Western Kenya. “Let those who are someone’s project in the region, and their master, know there is only one direction for us. There is no reverse gear,” the MPs said. “We will stand or fall together as one indivisible unit. If you are not with us, forget about Western Kenya. If you are not with us, you are against our people. Accordingly, the people will also reject you. And we will make sure that you are rejected.” The last meeting by Mudavadi and his allies was in Kitale on Saturday, where the ANC leader said he would not be hoodwinked to join the Jubilee administration. Oparanya and his group have been busy holding meetings with political leaders and elders in Western Kenyan in the pretext of preaching unity among the region’s communities. The two groups faced off on Saturday in Kitale when they held parallel meetings. “If either Mudavadi or Wetang'ula wants to be the spokesman for the Luhyas let them go ahead. We are not interested in that,” Eugene said. Mudavadi responded,“We will not allow anyone to force us to do as they want. We will build our parties as democratic entities.” Edited by EKibii