Kenyans hoping for an end to the tough coronavirus control measures should prepare for only a partial reopening of the economy. The Star has established that President Uhuru Kenyatta, who is facing tough options amid palpable expectations from Kenyans, will address the nation on Monday. However, a highly placed source said Kenyans should expect only a partial reopening of the economy. Uhuru has, however, been advised to lift the national curfew to allow a return to a 24-hour economy critical to saving millions of jobs and businesses that are on the line. Churches and other places of worship will also be reopened but with strict Covid-19 containment measures. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i and his Health counterpart Mutahi Kagwe earlier appointed an inter-religious council chaired by Catholic Archbishop Anthony Muheria to review reopening of churches. The team has finalised its report. Sources said lifting the ban on travel into and out of the Nairobi metropolitan area and Mombasa, which are the epicentres of Covid-19 remains one of the contentious issues. Cessation of movement into and out of Mandera could be lifted. The Ministry of Transport and the Kenya Airports Authority have been inspecting local airports to access their level of preparedness in readiness for the resumption of domestic flights. This had given hope that inter-county movements would eventually resume. During his Covid-19 update on June 6, President Uhuru directed the Ministry of Transport in conjunction with health officials to look into modalities to resume domestic flights. “The Ministry of Transport is directed within seven days from the date hereof, to engage all key stakeholders and develop protocols to guide resumption of local air travel,” the President said. However, Covid-19 cases have surged, leaving the President with limited options as many Kenyans hope for a return to normalcy. Covid-19 infections have hit 6,914 with 152 deaths. During the Monday address, the President will also state whether schools, colleges and universities can reopen from September as earlier projected. He will also make a decision on when KCPE and KCSE candidates will sit for national examinations. The Star has established that the President's advisers have warned against lifting all the restrictions established to contain the spread of the Covid-19 disease. The experts argue that the country would get to its peak from September, with projections already showing a defiant Covid-19 curve.  (edited by o. owino)