The Kenya Demographic and Health Survey, 2003, stated that 30 percent of children of any age in Kenya live with only one biological parent but currently from the World Family Map, 2019, 31 per cent of children live with one parent. Ms. Angela Isicha, a single mother of three children was forced to leave her house at a plot which was located around Ziwani due to lack of funds to pay for rent as a result of no jobs caused by the pandemic since she is a casual laborer in Gikomba. Coronavirus dealt her a blow when she could not find money to pay rent making the Single Mothers Association of Kenya Centre at Ziwani was her only refuge where she got shelter to help her stay with her ailing daughter. This has been her home since the pandemic started. Her major challenge has been the medication for her now twenty year old daughter, who suffers from a brain disorder which started a few days after birth. She has to make sure that her daughter gets the medication on time to avoid her daughter from becoming aggressive. Even with the casual jobs that she carries out on a day to day basis, it cannot cover for the medication which is very expensive to purchase, which costs at least Sh2000 per week. It has been hard for Angela when taking care of her daughter with the condition as she has to give her medicine for her to come back to her normal state. “If she misses her medicine even for a day, she screams and sometimes become aggressive to anyone that wants to come and help her”, she said. Ms. Angeline Nandwa, the founder and project director of the Single Mothers Association of Kenya, which has been operational since 1991 said that they helped Angela by taking her daughter for an assessment test at the DC’s office in Kamkunji to find a way she can get help for her condition. The Single Mothers Association of Kenya targets young mothers who are aged between 10 to 16 years and help them through life skills for a year. On the second year if they have not been able to do their KCPE, they enroll them for the exam as private candidates. She has been lucky as her two other children have been taken by a pastor who decided to take one of her children and the other was taken by the pastor’s sister to educate them and provide for them a place to stay. She would love for her eldest daughter to go to school despite her medical condition. Ms. Anne Opola is yet another single mother who has been having a hard time getting money to pay for rent and food which has become a major challenge for her since her casual job is not there anymore due to no capital. Her casual job could earn her at least Sh400 in a day. “Before Coronavirus spread into the country I would be able to go out and do business and have some money but now it is hard for me to come by some money to enable to put food on the table”, she said. Being a resident at Equity area in Ngara it has been a tough period for her. The restriction of movement affected her casual job in Nairobi leaving her to stay back in the house with her teenager with no income to lean on. Taking care of a teenager during such a period as a single mother is a challenge for Ms. Anne since she clashes with her son to read but he just wants to play and during this age they have developed attitudes which some of them tend to be rebellious. It has been hard for her to get three meals per day so she sometimes has to wake up late to forego breakfast and have lunch. Anne has been finding it hard to afford a laptop for her child thus he misses out on the online classes. Though there are classes ongoing on Radio, She said that not everyone has an access to a radio thus it limits them to the classes. She said this in turn leads to the child having nothing else to do and he wants to go out and play. This comes at a time when the Ministry of Education moved to reopen the schools next year. Ms. Anne believes that the lack of the ability to provide food and getting their children to learn through online platforms leads to some of the single mothers to be stressed. She has been able to cope through this pandemic from the help she gets through her friends financially to enable her meet the basic needs. From a study by Professor Shelley Clark on Single Motherhood in Sub-Saharan Africa, she said that though there are no systematic estimates of the rates of single motherhood in Sub-Saharan Africa, several indicators suggest that single motherhood is probably widespread and quite common in many countries. She goes ahead to say that there are two main pathways into single motherhood and they include when a woman gives birth before marriage and when she experiences a union dissolution through divorce or widowhood and having at least one dependent child. In her study she also said that marital instability is also common in some parts of Sub-Saharan Africa resulting in a large number of postmarital single mothers. According to a research done by Stefania Meda on Single Mothers of Nairobi, she states that 70 per cent of the single mothers she interviewed in 2013 were aged between 35 and 50 while 30 per cent were younger with a mean age of 26 years and were born in Nairobi. For some single mothers like Ms. Agatha Christine, residing at Car Wash in Kisumu, her main challenge has not been on the finances but on physical activity. The pandemic has led her to stay in the house. She said that staying in the house for a long period of time with no physical activity leads to one developing medical conditions such as diabetes. It has brought the element of fear to her making her to change some of her routines like walking the way she used to, grounding her to the house. Despite her not being affected financially, she said that prices of items have gone up and the access to some of the commodities is a challenge. “It is hard to get access to some of the items since they come from Nairobi County”, she said. Ms. Agatha was forced to change her shopping pattern and also her venue. She no longer buys her products at an open air market where it tends to be congested but goes to a supermarket. “I stopped getting my vegetables from the open air market since it gets congested so I get all my products from the supermarket that has order and observe hygiene”, she said. She also changed her shopping hours to avoid the evening rush. She goes to shop early in the morning on Sundays when there are few people as opposed to later in the day when there will be lots of people rushing to shop. Dr. Fredrick Owiti, a psychiatrist in Nairobi said that financial strain is one of the challenges single mothers face as they struggle to get money to feed and clothe their children. He added that in case of a job loss, the single mother may end up being stressed which will affect the child who will demand to know who the father is but at that point it will be too late and urged them to take it easy. Ms. Agatha said that the government has focused so much on the general population forgetting specific groups like the single mothers who are needy during this period. She urged the single mothers to join women groups which are beneficial in difficult times like these. “I would also urge some of the single mothers to invest in small businesses that can generate income like a grocery business”, she added. Through the women’s group that she is in, she has been able to survive through this period of the pandemic.