The demotion of Dr Joel Lutomiah as the head of Kenya Medical Research Institute’s Centre for Viral Research in April was hurried and unprocedural, the Senate has concluded. In a new report by the Senate ad hoc committee on Covid-19 situation in the country, the team says the removal of the scientist was unlawful, putting the Kemri top brass on the spot. The government funded research unit is at the heart of Covid-19 testing. “The preliminary observation of the Committee is that the demotion of Dr Lutomiah was carried out in a rushed and unprocedural manner and did not comply with provisions of the Constitution,” the committee said in its preliminary report. Lutomiah was demoted on April 17 by Kemri director general Yeri Kombe, reportedly on Health CS Mutahi Kagwe’s instruction, for delaying release of the Covid-19 results. Kagwe, however, distanced himself from the saga, saying the action was a normal administrative issue at Kemri. “My understanding was that the individual was never sacked but was just transferred from one department to the other,” Kagwe told the National Assembly Health committee in April. “I even see politics at play in this case. I am wondering why an administrative issue can make it to the front page. I personally do not have any authority on Kemri,” he added. In the report, the committee said Lutomiah’s removal from the position violated the Fair Administrative Action Act (No. 5 of 2015), among other guidelines, protocols and manuals governing disciplinary action. Kemri is the single largest Covid-19 testing institution in the country. While tabling the report, committee chairman Johnson Sakaja said Lutomiah was alleged to have delayed the collation and transmission of test results to the Ministry of Health. By evening of the fateful day, he had been dismissed from his position. He was neither given the opportunity to be heard nor taken through a disciplinary process before the decision to dismiss him from the position was made, Sakaja said. “This was despite the officer having had an illustrious career at Kemri before the said incident, without having had any performance or disciplinary issue raised against him,” Sakaja said. The committee, however, failed to recommend Lutomiah’s reinstatement. Instead, Sakaja’s team summoned the CS and Kemri director general to further discuss the matter. The committee probed the incident following a petition by Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala who termed Lutomiah’s dismissal from the position as irregular. Senators had said that the removal at a time the country was battling the global pandemic was suspect and only served to demoralise frontline health workers. Edited by EKibii