Sofapaka have assured their youngster Tevin Omutere of accelerating their plan to have him operated on. The attacking midfielder tore his knee meniscus at the start of the 2019/2020 season and almost a year down the lane, he is yet to go under the knife, putting his career at risk. Omutere was supposed to have his surgery alongside his teammate Brian Magonya late last year but he says the club's policy on medical cover did not favour him, thanks to his age. Omutere raised the alarm over his delayed date with the surgeon, which he observed had hindered his plot to return to action by the end of the year. “I was lined up for operation last year but the process did not start. As much as I can not blame the club for the delay,I fear for my career. I am certain even if I face the knife today, I will not kick the ball this year contrary to my initial plan,” said the rookie who was promoted to the senior team at the start of the season However, Sofapaka President Elly Kalekwa said the prolonged delay was triggered by numerous factors among them the coronavirus pandemic, doctors advice, club policy and the player's age which barred him from benefiting from the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) cover offered by the club. Kalekwa said the player was initially set to be treated but after a final Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scan in March, he was advised to head for incision. The administrator, who seemingly absolved his office of blame over the delay,  promised to roll his sleeves and fast track the process . “When he got injured, the doctor was hesitant of him going under the knife. He recommended a special treatment and exercises which at first worked well. However,  after several scans and exhausting all options, the doctor suggested that we prepares him for surgery,” he said He added: “We had challenges since the player had not attained 18 years hence could not have benefited from the medical cover. No sooner had he acquired his national identification card than coronavirus halted our plan to book for his surgery. The surgeon also advised us to wait but we are looking forward to revive the case and have him operated as soon as possible,” he said.       