Gatanga MP Nduati Ngugi has asked Kenyans to stop speculating about a lunch meeting held by leaders from Mt Kenya region last week. Nduati said it was uncanny that people read politics every time leaders from the region congregate yet others meet regularly without raising eyebrows. He said President Uhuru Kenyatta had been calling for the unity of leaders from the region and that such meetings were for fostering a good relationship. The leaders, including Speaker of the National Assembly Justin Muturi, Agriculture CS Peter Munya, governors Muthomi Njuki (Tharaka Nithi), Lee Kinyanjui (Nakuru) and Ndiritu Muriithi (Laikipia), said it was a private lunch to congratulate Kipiripiri MP Amos Kimunya on his appointment as Leader of Majority in the National Assembly. “Kenyans should know that it was just a lunch. As Kiraitu said, any meeting by local politicians, even when they are just playing sports, is deemed political,” Nduati said. He spoke at Kihiu Mwiri during a food issuance exercise facilitated by Murang'a Senator Irungu Kang'ata in partnership with the US embassy on Saturday. Nduati dismissed allegations that the meeting was meant to endorse former presidential candidate Peter Kenneth as the region’s kingpin. He however noted that Kenneth was a leader who was known nationally for his impeccable leadership qualities and development record when he served as Gatanga MP for two terms. “Kenneth started as young man with Football Kenya Federation before he was elected as an MP and he recently said he is ready to work with the President,” he said. Nduati said though he was not advocating for any government official’s sacking, the President should consider Kenneth if he wants to do away with nonperforming officials. The government, he said, had many opportunities, including parastatals, to Kenneth could be appointed. But a section of other leaders urged Peter Kenneth to wait for 2022 in order to plunge into politics. Senator Kang’ata said although he supported the accession of local leaders, it was not yet time to discuss succession politics. The Senate Majority Chief Whip said it was time for leaders to focus on development matters that would better the lives of Kenyans. “Anyone rising through the ranks from Murang’a county is a good thing and I support but we should avoid politics for now and wait for 2022,” he added. He said it is the role of leaders in the region to ensure locals benefit from as much development as possible before the term ends. Maragua MP Mary Waithera said the region already had a kingpin who is the President and was waiting for his direction in 2022. “We should give ourselves time because if we engage in succession politics, we will forget that we have not yet fully delivered the development we promised our people,” he added. She said the President could not mislead the region, noting that he needs locals’ support to leave a legacy. Kigumo MP Wangari Mwaniki pleaded with leaders from the region to go slow in succession politics, saying it is for the region’s best interests. “It is okay for people to sit and talk but we should not be seen to be rushing succession issues so that we can empower the President to work,” Wangari said. Edited by Henry Makori