Kenya on Tuesday recorded 606 new cases of Covid-19, raising the country's total  to 18,581. The new positives were drawn from the 4,888 people whose samples were tested within 24 hours. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said in terms of gender, 409  were males and 197 were females. Age wise, the youngest was a four month old infant, while the oldest was 85 years. From the new cases, 583 were Kenyans while 23 were foreigners. On a positive note, 75 patients have recovered from the disease, bringing  the total number of recoveries in the country so far to 7,908. However, 14 more patients succumbed to the virus, raising fatalities in the country to 299. The cases were distributed in Nairobi 448, Kiambu 54, Kajiado 25, Machakos 16, Uasin Gishu 11, Nakuru 11, Kericho nine , Busia seven, Mombasa seven, Garissa six, Bomet three, Nyeri two, Narok two, Nandi two,  Embu , Lamu and Muranga one case each. In Nairobi, Embakasi has become a hot spot and the CS urged residents to take extra precaution. Kagwe urged those working from home should try and operate from their own houses. "I have become a bullet, you have become a bullet. We can kill somebody. We have become dangerous," he said. He encouraged parents to insist their children to wash their hands, sanitize and be responsible. Kagwe echoed President Uhuru Kenyatta's words by saying there will be no relent on anybody regardless of status when it comes to enforcing covid-19 rules. He discouraged people from travelling upcountry or hosting visitors in their homes unless it's urgent. Eight medical workers are among those who have succumbed to the virus in the country. Consequently, the National Nurses Association of Kenya (NNAK) on Tuesday morning raised concern over the increase of Covid-19 cases amongst healthcare workers across the country. NNAK president Alfred Obengo in a statement to the media revealed that as at July 28, more than 500 medics had contracted the virus. "As this unfortunate scenario is happening, we have sadly lost eight healthcare workers in across the country with five from Nairobi and one each from Wajir, Kajiado and Mombasa Counties," he said. Obengo urged both the national and county governments to move with speed and ensure that healthcare workers have adequate quality Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs).