The Higher Educations Loans Board has announced that the issuance of its Compliance Certificate to non-beneficiaries will be free from July 15. Through a statement from CEO Charles Ringera, the board said it will stop charging Sh1,000 for the youths seeking jobs, saying that the fee has been perceived as punitive for those who did not benefit from the student loans. The board added that complaints had been raised in various platforms regarding the same with some saying that unemployment and under-employment challenges could not allow them to raise the money. Helb said that slow economic growth and escalated cost of living as well as retrenchment and downsizing affecting all sectors which have been exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic has hardened their situation. Those wishing to have the certificate have been asked to access it from the Helb website as well as the e-Citizen Portal. Ringera said waiving the fee is expected to motivate Kenyan youth to seek their HELB compliance certificates as they seek jobs or opportunities to contribute towards building the nation. He also said the step taken will create goodwill and promotion of HELB products among Kenyans as they seek compliance certificate. Helb had earlier announced plans to review the amount non-loan job seekers pay to get clearance certificates. Ringera had said a new online portal was being developed, allowing job seekers who never applied for loans from fund will pay far much less for the certificates. “Once we are able to offer this service fully electronically, the cost should substantially come down from the current Sh1,000,” he said. A group of youth had petition the Senate, seeking explanation as to why one would pay for the certificate even when they did not benefit from any loan from the fund. The youth also want charges for clearance certificates from Kenya Revenue Authority, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission be drastically reduced or scrapped for fresh graduates.