The scramble to own the late Dutch businessman Tob Cohen continues one year after his controversial death. The tussle pits his wife Sarah Wairimu - said to be estranged from him at the time of his death -  against the businessman's brother and sister. Bernard Cohen and sister Gabriele Cohen are the latest to cause a public spectacle after they placed an advert in the Daily Nation newspaper on July 20 to mark the one year anniversary of the businessman’s death. The advert listed Bernard and Gabriele alongside their spouses as the ones missing the late tycoon, leaving out his wife Sarah and her daughter. “Affectionately remembered by your sister Gabriele Cohen and her husband Roy Van Straten, your brother Bernard Cohen and his wife Adri Lensen, and your nephew Seth and your niece Sharon. Fondly also remembered by the Kenyan golf community and the golf fraternity at large, friends, and from all the lives that you touched all over the globe,” the ad read. But Wairimu’s lawyer Philip Murgor dismissed the advert as inconsequential, saying that once Sarah had laid the tombstone, “it was clear to everyone who the real family and wife was. “Having made the tombstone on the grave, it is obvious who the wife is,” Murgor said, adding that the widow wants to concentrate on the case facing her at the court currently. He alleged that one of the associates of Cohen’s siblings in the country had threatened to have the tombstone made by the widow destroyed. Cohen went missing in July last year at the height of reported turmoil with his wife. His decomposing body was later recovered in September 2019, tied and dumped in underground water tank in his compound on Farasi lane in Kitisuru, Nairobi. He was buried at the Jewish cemetery along Wangari Maathai road in Pangani, Nairobi. His widow is charged with his murder. She denies the charge. At the heart of the contestations between the two family camps is inheritance of Cohen’s estate, said to be vast in the country and abroad. The businessman is said to have handed over his estate and wealth worth Sh440 million to his sister Gabriele and other relatives, excluding his widow Sarah and their daughter. The widow rejected the will, with her lawyer complaining that she was being dispossessed. Edited by Henry Makori