PSVs revved up on Tuesday but business was sluggish as shuttles from Eldoret, Kitale and other parts of Western Kenya resumed operations. Passengers didn’t flock to matatus heading to Nairobi and Mombasa; many decided to stay home for now. On Monday President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered reopening of sealed-off Nairobi, Mombasa and Mandera, which are Covid-19 hotspots. Most of the matatu shuttles had grounded just like hundreds of vehicles that plied the route to Nairobi but most operators said they were ready to resume will full compliance to Covid-19 protocols. “We are happy to resume work because drivers’ lives had been turned upside down due to closure of business in the last three months,” driver Ben Ngige of North Rift Shuttle said. North Rift is the largest shuttle in the region. “We will ensure we fully comply with what the government has advised to stop the spread of Covid-19.” Rift Shuttle had grounded more than 500 vehicles but the firm recalled all its drivers as it prepared to restart operations. There were few bookings for Nairobi. “Though they have reopened and I have business in Nairobi, I will go by President Uhuru Kenyatta’s advice to avoid travelling if possible,” businessman James Kiarie from Eldoret said. Not travelling is part of self-responsibility in helping to control Covid-19, he said. Vice chairman of the North Rift Chamber of Commerce Willy Kenei said business people were pleased with the decision to begin reopening the economy. “We are sure there will be recovery to enable Kenyans earn a living but we caution everyone to abide by the protocols to avoid a catastrophic spiral in the numbers of patients,” Kenei said. Governors in the North Rift region led by Uasin Gishu’s Jackson Mandago also welcomed the President’s decision but warned residents not to relax controls. “As counties we will work with the national government to ensure we strictly enforce the measures in place,” Mandago said. He is chairman of the North Rift Economic Bloc. Mandago said everyone must take personal responsibility. “Each one of us has to personally take charge of their own safety by following the protocols,” he said. Mandago said the Noreb members led by the eight governors in the region would meet to assess their preparedness for dealing with Covid-19. President Kenyatta said each county in Kenya must have at least 300 isolation beds. (Edited by V. Graham) 