Governors in the North Rift region are demanding full involvement of all political leaders in sensitisation campaigns on Covid-19  to enhance mobilisation and public knowledge on the virus as cases increase They county chiefs want MPs, senators, MCAs and other leaders to help in encouraging  communities to accept Covid-19 as a reality and learn to live with it,  and prevent it. A meeting of the North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb) governors chaired by Governor Jackson Mandago of Uasin Gishu saidt through politicians the communities would be sensitised to adopt  intervention measures and behavioral change. “Noreb and the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital are preparing to brief the political leaders in the region on the status of Covid-19, the role of prevention and preventive healthcare and projections on infections, the governors said in a statement on Sunday night after a joint virtual meeting. Mandago said after the briefing political leaders will meet to adopt a common strategy to fight Covid-19 in the North Rift where five of eight counties have registered positive cases. Uasin Gishu has the highest with more than 140 cases, followed by Turkana with more than 22 cases. Baringo, West Pokot and Samburu are yet to report a case. The government maintain its ban on political activities to help curb spread of the virus through mass gatherings but the North Rift governors argue political leaders have influence and access to more people and can play a greater role in sensitisation. They can meet smaller groups and pass the word. Mandago said with the partial reopening of the economy, the burden of prevention had been pushed to Kenyans who must now be educated on Covid-19 so they are armed with proper information to stop further spread. The governors also noted that the reopening of the economy had opened a critical phase in the mitigation and management of Covid-19. “It’s only through collaborative efforts by all stakeholders and members of the public that we will be able to  manage and mitigate the effects of the pandemic," Mandago said. The county chiefs said they expected a surge in numbers of confirmed cases but they were  putting in place measures to ensure Kenyans fully adhere to control measures. Governor Patrick Khaemba of Trans Nzoia said they would ensure opened sectors like the matatu or transport sector and hoteliers adhere to control protocols. However, the governors welcomed the reopening of the economy noting that effects of shutdowns had ruined the lives of many people. “Now it’s upon us to fully adhere to control measures while working hard to help in economic recovery," Governor Alex Tolgos of Elgeyo Marakwet. (Edited by V. Graham)