Nyaribari Masaba MP Ezekiel Machogu has said he has what it takes to succeed Kisii Governor James Ongwae. Incumbent Ongwae is serving his second and last term. Machogu said he will revamp the healthcare system and infrastructure across the county once he is elected. The former provincial administrator joins a growing list of political leaders in the county who have expressed interest in succeeding Ongwae. Last week, Infrastructure CAS Chris Obure said he too, at 76, is still young enough to make a second attempt at the governorship. “Many have been asking if will still vie for governorship, rest assured I will not disappoint you,” he said at his home in Nyansancha, Bobasi. In the last general election, Obure emerged second after ODM's Ongwae. Obure vied on a Jubilee party ticket. Machogu was a career administrator and at one time a powerful Nyandarua District Commissioner before he retired to plunge into the Nyaribari Masaba seat. "I am not going to disappoint but as one fights for equity and equality I will ensure we undertake development that will raise the livelihoods of our people," he said. Machogu spoke at Ichuni in Nyaribari Masaba during the groundbreaking ceremony for a new police station in the area. He decried the rising cases of defilement in the country. He said girls should be protected at all costs against sexual predators preying on minors. "It should concern everyone that we are experiencing a surge in teenage pregnancies. As security agencies do their work, let the parents also help in inculcating the right morals in our kids," he said. Machogu said Sh4 million from the Nyaribari Masaba Constituency Development Fund has been set aside for the construction. “The Sh4 million will be used to start construction. We will get more funds for its expansion because we want it to be a complete police station,” he said. The lawmaker said the Kisii government will give Sh5 million for further development of the police station. “When we met with Governor James Ongwae earlier in the year in Kisii town, we agreed that we both partner to materialise the project,” Machogu said. He said the Interior Ministry will also chip in with more funds. Residents have been travelling to Ramasha police station which is over 30 kilometres away to seek services. Ramasha police station was established to mainly deal with border conflicts between the Maasai, Kisii and Kipsigis. “Our people at Keroka and Ichuni have been complaining of high levels of insecurity and poor response from police stationed at Ramasha,” Machogu said. He noted that the main police station located at Keroka Town is in the Nyamira county side, hence causing administrative challenges. The officers have frequently failed respond to distress calls residents from Masaba South. “We know the road passing through Keroka town is a demarcation of Nyamira and Kisii counties. The police station is in Nyamira county and officers have always been reluctant to respond to issues in Kisii county,” the lawmaker said. Consequently, the residents have been hesitant to seek services from Keroka police station saying they are always referred to Ramasha which is kilometres away. “The new station at Ichuni will help end this confusion. We thank Interior CS Fred Matiang’i and IG Hillary Mutyambai for giving us a go-ahead,” Machogu said. The MP said cattle rustling and border clashes have reduced since Matiang’i took over in the Interior ministry. “We thank the CS for the efforts he has put to end cattle rustling which often led to border conflicts with neighbouring communities.” Other Kisii governor hopefuls include Senator Sam Ongeri. He would be near 90 in 2022. Critics want him to quit politics on account of age. Deputy Governor Joash Maangi is also keen on succeeding his boss. Also planning to run are two former two South Mugirango MPs Omingo Magara and Manson Nyamweya. Bobasi politician Lumumba Nyaberi, Kitutu Chache South MP Richard Onyonka and Nyaribari Chache activist Rachel Otundo also told the Star they will be on the ballot. Onyonka, hails from Governor Ongwae's political backyard, causing ripples among the restive Nyaribari people who themselves want a pie. County MP Janet Ongera is said to be secretly marshalling her arsenal for the gubernatorial race. She would be the second female contestant eyeing the seat so far. Little is known of Dagoreti South MP Simba Arati who has since scaled down his "meet the people tours" in the region. Some former councillors told journalists last week that the MP will run for the seat. 