The National Police Service on Wednesday launched its first online training for officers across the country. The training aims to address the unique challenges that the uniformed men and women face while enforcing law and order during this Covid-19 period. Inspector General Hillary Mutyambai said the first-ever online training course is a result of a collaboration between the NPS, European Union and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. "This training comprises seven e-learning modules that police officers will complete at their own pace on a computer, tablet or smartphone," he said. He said use of force and firearms among the uniformed officers, responsibilities of the police in handling sexual and gender-based violence cases and bail and bond are among the courses to be offered in the mandatory seven-course module. Others are human rights approaches to crowd control and public order management, how the police should handle special interest groups, understanding diversion and the decision to charge. "The Covid-19 pandemic has created new challenges for policing in Kenya and we, therefore, need new response strategies to crime and incidents, and the enforcement of Covid-19 related regulations,' Mutyambai said. He added, "These training modules will go a long way in equipping our officers with relevant information for better service delivery to the public while observing the rule of law, their personal safety and that of offenders". This comes amid rising cases of police brutality and harassment while implementing the Covid-19 protocols. Over 30 people have been killed by the police while others left nursing injuries since the curfew was imposed on March 27. At least six people died from police violence during the first 10 days of the dusk-to-dawn curfew. The police, without apparent justification, shoot and beat people at markets or returning home from work, even before the daily start of the curfew. In some areas, the police have been accused of breaking into homes and shops, extorting money from residents or looting food. The latest case is where police were captured as they clobbered Mlango Kubwa MCA Patricia Mutheu following chaos at city hall. The manner in which the officers roughed and beat up the ward rep drew a lot of public outcry with leaders hitting out at the IG for laxity in implementing police reforms. The MCA has since been hospitalised. On March 30, following criticism from various groups over abuses President Uhuru Kenyatta apologised generally about police use of force. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i also offered an apology while promising to end the reckless killings. Matiang'i said rogue officers will be reined in amid efforts to have them respect the rule of law. Police spokesman Charles Owino has maintained that erratic officers have nowhere to hide as the law will catch up with them. The Independent Policing Oversight Authority is currently investigating these cases.