Parents, teachers and students will have to wait a bit longer to know whether schools will remain shut or reopen in September. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday directed Education CS George Magoha to deliver a report on resumption of learning  within 24 hours, that's Tuesday. The presidential directive will put to a halt the divided opinion on the safety of schools  reopening in September. There is speclulation the head of state favours reopening in September. The proposal to reopen in September was among initial recommendations to President Kenyatta in May by a team formed by CS Magoha. But this was followed by a second recommendation in June opposing the September reopening and instead calling for reopening in January next year. The January proposal was supported by stakeholders including teachers' unions and CS Magoha who said schools will not be reopen until the infection curve is flattened. Magoha explained the recommended January reopening was due to medical advice that "the spike of the infection is expected to occur around the same time (September)." It is not clear if President Kenyatta rejected the recommendation to push reopening to 2021. In his ninth address to the nation since the onset of the pandemic, President Kenyatta on Monday said the decision on when to reopen should consider the surge in the infection rates. “Following consultation with representatives in the Education sector, and cognizant of the surge of infections in the country, the Education ministry shall involve all stakeholders in the sector and notify the public on the resumption of the 2020 academic calendar for basic education and tertiary institutions,” he said. Schools hve remained closed since March 15. By September, the institutions will be counting 17 lost weeks of the school calendar. If reopened in September, schools will first open for candidates preparing for this year's KCPE and KCSE exams. About 1.93 million candidates have registered for this year’s national tests, the Kenya National Examinations Council said. Out of these, 1,187,517 registered for the KCPE exam, while 751,150 for the KCSE exam. A document signed by CS Magoha and presented to the National Assembly's Education committee last week also reveals the government's apparent intention to reopen technical institutions in September. The document argues that the low enrolments are manageable and could warrant safe operations. The MPs wanted to know how the ministry plans to handle schools upon reopening. Medical experts and studies have warned that coronavirus in children exists in a latent form but still can be transmitted to vulnerable persons. The ease of transmission of the virus and its latent nature of it in young people make the issue of school opening problematic. (Edited by V. Graham)