Has ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi been too long in office? That's what the Registrar of Political Parties said, declining to extend his five-year stay pending corrections to the party's quest to extend his term until after the Covid-19 pandemic. The ANC constitution says officials are elected to serve a five-year term after which an election is held to choose new officials. The ANC on June 26 had resolved through a special National Governing Council meeting that those whose terms had expired would serve until after the pandemic. The current office holders' terms, including Mudavadi's, expired on June 15. In an effort to comply with its constitution, the party resolved to push elections until after the pandemic. It communicated the decision to Registrar of Political Parties Anne Nderitu. On Tuesday, however, Nderitu told the Star her office declined the ANC proposal to extend current office holders' terms, saying the proposal  was marred by gaps that violated the Political Parties Act. “There were gaps and the Registrar asked the party to align the gaps with the (Political Parties) Act.  If you find there are issues not in tandem with the Act, you advise them [parties] what to do. It is a process,” Nderitu said on the phone. She said once her office ascertains the party has rectified the highlighted gaps, then she will make a decision guided by the Act. "Once the gaps are addressed, we will have a look and if they are okay we accept the [party] constitution as required by the Act.” She did not explain the gaps that forced her office to throw out the ANC's quest to extend Mudavadi's and others' terms. But in a letter seen by the Star to the Registrar, ANC founding member Angela Gathoni Wambura wrote on July 23 that the June NGC was illegal and unprocedural as it was attended by strangers. Wambura through Kisilu and Wandati Advocates also challenged the June meeting, stating no notice was sent to members of the NEC, the body that purportedly made the resolutions ratified by the NGC. “According to the minutes of the NGC meeting of June 2020, the task of amending the Party Constitution was undertaken by the party’s legal team. This was contrary to the express provisions of Article 63 of the Party Constitution which provides the mandate to amend the Constitution vests in the NDC and in its absence the NEC pending NGC ratification,” Wambura said in the latter. “The party’s legal team is neither the NEC nor the NDC, hence, the resolution to amend the Constitution is void, having been undertaken by the legal team.” To address the gaps highlighted by the Registrar, the Mudavadi-led party convened another NGC that lasted less than an hour. It was attended by 60 delegates. In a statement to newsrooms, ANC secretary general Barrack Muluka did not divulge much, only announcing the  endorsement of Mudavadi as the party’s presidential flag bearer in the 2022 General Elections. “It is now therefore official that the highest organ of the Party that makes decisions of this kind, the National Governing Council, has now endorsed and given Musalia Mudavadi the mandate to go out there whenever it is that the elections will be to begin soliciting for votes and support from Kenyans as he leads the party towards the year 2022 as the presidential flag earer. Therefore, there will be no contenders for the ANC presidential party ticket because now that is a closed chapter,” Muluka said. (Edited by V. Graham) 