Mombasa bar owners have pleaded with President Uhuru Kenyatta to allow them to fully reopen their establishments ahead of his address to the nation on Monday. Mombasa County Bar Owners Association on Saturday said they have been out of business for four months, forcing some of their members to close down completely. Chairman Patrick Kabundu on Sunday told the Star that they have suffered enough. “Some of our members have suffered mental breakdown because they were dependent on this business. Now they're depressed," Kabundu said. Many Kenyans expect Uhuru to reopen the economy by lifting the curfew and movement restrictions. However, the Star established the surging numbers of Covid-19 infections pose a catastrophic danger and a challenge to the Uhuru administration. A partial reopening of the economy is expected, with highly placed sources indicating that Uhuru’s advisors are pushing for the lifting of the national curfew to return to a 24-hour economy critical to saving millions of jobs and businesses that are on the line. On Sunday, Kabundu said they are ready to adhere to strict guidelines for the reopening of their bars and liquor stores. “Our employees have been rendered jobless and cannot fend for themselves and their families. We shall comply with all laid-down rules and regulations,” the chairman said. The association asked the government to provide free Covid-19 testing and certificates to their members and staff. They also pleaded with the county government to waive this year's  trading licence fees. “...the government to provide clear guidance on how our members can access the economic stimulus fund that was directed towards the hospitality industry. This should include all the stakeholders in the industry from big hotels to the small bars." The association is a member of the Bars, Hotels and Liquor Traders Association of Kenya (Bahlita). There are about 1,500 bars and wines and spirits joints in the county but only about 500 have been registered under the association. There are also about 5,000 employees now out of jobs. Kabundu said about half the bars and liquor stores will not reopen even if they are allowed because they have used up their capital. “This period forced them to eat into their capital and now they will have to look for capital to be able to reopen. With the situation we are in, it will be hard to get capital,” he said. Association secretary Kennedy Mumbo said coronavirus is here to stay until a vaccine is found. “As such, we have no choice but to live with the virus. What we can only do is to be cautious about it and eat healthy to boost our immune system,” Mumbo said. Kabundu said supermarkets and open-air markets are always full of people "which is no different from when the bars were open". “Despite this, we will strictly adhere to the guidelines that the government, through the Health ministry, will give us,” he said. Kabundu’s sentiments came a day after Mombasa pastors also called on the President to reopen churches and other places of worship. Mombasa Pastors Fellowship said the lack spiritual nourishment has led to a spike of social vices. “We have witnessed an increase in gender-based violence, our teenage girls have been impregnated in unbelievable numbers, there have been suicidal deaths and bizarre killings of children by their own mothers,” MPF chair Reverend Elijah Mulavu said. He said people have been pushed to the brink of despair. Edited by R.Wamochie