Nairobi has now surpassed Mombasa as a high-risk county after leading in coronavirus attack rate at 176.1. This means that chances of someone in Nairobi contracting the virus are higher than for Kenyans in other parts of the country. Mombasa now comes second with a virus attack rate of 151.9. Nairobi county has a virus caseload of 8,036, while Mombasa has 1,841 cases. The Health ministry on Monday maintained that the virus peak in the country was yet to come. The figures from the ministry now show that out of the 13,353 cases that had been reported as at Sunday, 12,468 resulted from local transmission, accounting for 93 per cent of all the cases. “Models will change with time depending on the data that is generated as we move on. We now have models of predictions that are done on a regular basis and we are still informed that our peak is likely to come probably in late August or early September,” Health CAS Rashid Aman said. He noted the government did not have any locally generated data at the beginning of the pandemic and had to rely on international data, adding that a lot of data and assumptions that were made previously were borrowed from elsewhere. “That is the working hypothesis that we have now but this is likely to change as we move on and see what is happening in the country. This information is continuously being fed into the model to adjust it as we move on,” he said. Aman announced that four more patients succumbed to the virus as the brunt of disease continues to be felt. The total number of fatalities now stands at 238. One was a 72-year-old male patient at the Kenyatta University Teaching and Referral Hospital who had hypertension, diabetes and chronic kidney disease while the second patient was from Nanyuki Level 5 Hospital. “Age does not protect you from this disease. The last two deaths were both female, one 30 the other 39 at KNH and Aga Khan University Hospital and they had no underlying conditions,” the CAS said. The rising cases in the country come amid fear that Kenyans have gone back to normal, with bars and restaurants flouting the protocols in place. Some restaurants are accused of converting themselves into bars and serving alcohol upto 4am, with others accused of contravening the directive on sitting arrangement. As of Monday, the number of positive cases in the country were at 13,771 after 418 more cases were confirmed. The new cases were from 2,474 samples tested in a day. The total number of tests conducted since the first case is now 246,361. On a positive note, 494 more people were discharged from hospital, bringing the total number of patients who have successfully undergone treatment to 5,616. The new cases are aged between one and 86 years, comprising of 236 men and 155 women. Out of the total confirmed cases, 292 are from Nairobi while Kiambu has 54 cases, Machakos 28, Kajiado 13, Mombasa six, Nakuru, Narok and Meru each had five cases, Kitui three, Nyandarua and Nyeri two cases each while Busia, Garissa and Isiolo had one case each. “It is an issue that is disheartening to all of us that the more cases we are reporting of Covid- 19 the more we are seeing Kenyans taking to the bars. Stern action will be taken against such,” head of Public Health Francis Kuria said. “The ministry in conjunction with other stakeholders is working on this and some may have to be closed.” Edited by Henry Makori