The revenue shortfall occasioned by the Covid-19 pandemic threatens to ground a number of CDF projects worth billions of shillings. The Star has established that the Treasury is yet to disburse Sh13.7 billion of the Sh41.7 billion allocated to National Government Constituency Development Fund (NG-CDF). Several lawmakers have raised concern since the country has entered the new financial year before the money was disbursed. The projects face “serious challenges”, according to Aden Duale (Garissa Township MP and former leader of Majority). His concern was echoed by Wajir South MP Mohamud Sheikh and  Uriri's Mark Nyamita. “We have just received 50 per cent yet the financial year has come to an end. Most projects have stalled,” Nyamita said. “We are unable to plan effectively for the next financial year without knowing what would happen to the already approved projects,” Mohamud said. Only Sh6 billion had been disbursed as of December 31, 2019. By then, 257 constituencies had received at least 15 per cent of the amount with 33 having received Sh4 million only. The board was yet to disburse about Sh35 billion, meaning that Sh22 billion – more than half the allocation, was only disbursed after January. The board that manages the kitty said it is in talks with the National Treasury to unlock the funds. NG-CDF board chief executive Yusuf Mbuno told the Star that a number of projects will definitely stall as most of the proposals were already approved. “I am aware of the concerns. This means some constituencies will not get all the monies allocated to them. We have engaged the Treasury and they are working on it,” Mbuno said. He said the challenge followed the shortfall in revenue “as the impact of Covid-19 on the economy has been great.” Constituencies were to receive Sh137 million each but records show that a number of them are yet to receive in excess of Sh50 million. Mbuno agrees that the implementation of projects depends on the pace at which the board disburses funds to the constituencies. He, however, was quick to note that the board’s promptness to disburse the funds also depends on how much it receives from the exchequer. “Some projects will stall. But we must acknowledge that this is a very unique situation influenced by Covid-19 which has slowed revenue collection.” Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani also attributed the delays to the revenue shortfall in the last financial year. “We are handling it now. NG-CDF does not lapse but will be accumulated savings for the constituencies,” he said. Treasury data shows that revenue collection as of June 30 amounted to Sh2.6 trillion. This was Sh200 billion short of what was projected last financial year. Tax revenue was Sh1.5 trillion and non-tax revenue Sh121 billion. Some Sh299 billion was from external loans and grants, Sh558 billion from domestic borrowing and Sh45 billion from other domestic sources. Mbuno said the board never had a challenge with CDF funds the previous two years, noting that disbursement to constituencies is subject to the board approving their project proposals. The law requires that the National Treasury should disburse money to the board every quarter based on the allocation for the respective year. He said the shortfall can only be catered for through a supplementary budget, but that will depend on whether the economy improves this financial year. The MPs lamented that the situation is getting costly and would slow down efforts to expand school infrastructure ahead of the reopening slated for January 2021.  - mwaniki fm