Bondo subcounty police boss Anthony Wafula has died hours after being admitted to hospital with fever and breathing difficulties. Wafula died early on Tuesday morning around 1am, hours after being admitted Bondo Subcounty Hospital. According to the police report, the officer was rushed to the health facility after developing a fever and breathing difficulties. He is reported to have returned his children to Nairobi after the partial lockdown was lifted and came back a few days before falling sick. The reports indicate he had been unwell until Monday night when his condition deteriorated around 11pm when he was rushed to hospital. Siaya county police commander Francis Kooli confirmed the death, noting that samples have already been picked from the officer’s body and taken to the Kemri lab in Kisumu for testing to establish the cause of his death. The body was moved to the hospital’s mortuary awaiting a postmortem. Elsewhere, in Migori, fear has gripped residents seeking services from a police station over the spread of Covid-19. The sudden death of a police boss in Siaya and a Covid-19 cased confirmed at Kamagambo police station led to its close monitoring and closure of Rongo resident magistrate court for 14 days. Rongo Ministry of Health officer Justus Arodi said a Covid-19 patient was confirmed at a cell in the station, which prompted the move. "The two institutions will remain closed as we put up measures which include spraying disinfectants," Arodi said. He said will train the staff to ensure they adhere to Covid-19 like washing hands, face masks and social distance rules.​​ "We will check if the cells are full or not, we will also disinfect the cells and encourage releasing suspects on bonds to ease congestion," Arodi said. James Oguk, Migori county health officer in charge of promotions said they have taken closer attention to cells. "Most police officers apart from enforcing the law, also lack facemasks and handwashing centres. We will ensure the orders are followed," Oguk said. Edited by R.Wamochie