Who will come to the rescue of inmates, warders and those on remand at the Industrial Area Prison? Sources whisper to Corridors more than 90 people have been infected with Covid-19 in the congested facility where more than 2,400 people are jailed. Worse, more people are being sent there. The rooms and cells are tiny. Medical attention is rare. Insiders say it's a time bomb. On Thursday, unconfirmed reports said a VIP being held at the facility was quickly moved but where? One thing is not in doubt: Everyone at the prison is pleading for help from  Commissioner of Prisons Wycliffe Ogallo and PS Zainab Hussein (pictured). When DP William Ruto recently decried 'intimidation' by the State of politicians and state officers perceived to be close to him, he exposed the fear of victimisation gripping two Cabinet secretaries from Rift Valley and a host of PSs. Corridors has learnt some top government officials no longer want to be seen anywhere near Ruto’s offices at Harambee House Annex and Karen. It's nothing personal but they fear they could be targeted by the power wielders and find themselves without jobs. Their movements are being monitored every minute by a special team tasked to spy. Three legislators from Western are the subject of hushed talk in Parliament for hiring their spouses as their personal assistants. Two of the politicians, one a renowned senator and another a dormant member of the National Assembly, have recruited their wives as PAs in the official Parliamentary Service Committee records. The MP also has hired his brother-in-law and another relative of his wife to work in the same office. The third lawmaker, a woman representative, has put her husband on the payroll as her official aide and official chauffeur. The better halves of the leaders hardly report to work and yet are highly paid — more than other staff members in their offices. These questionable hiring decisions have caused an uproar in their constituencies. Some of their key campaigners in the last election are crying foul. A governor from Mt Kenya has reached out to President Uhuru Kenyatta to raise the alarm over 'unbecoming behaviour' of a Cabinet secretary. A little bird in the county boss's office tells Corridors the governor is upset the CS uses his office and resources to campaign for a rival. The adversary is another senior government official planning to dethrone the first-term governor. The county boss says the CS and the official have been crisscrossing the county without having the courtesy to inform the governor if the projects they purport to inspect or launch are genuine. As if they would!