Residents of Gatitu village in Weru ward, Ol Joro Orok have raised fears of starvation after hippos from Lake Ol Bolossat invaded their farms and destroyed crops. They want the government, through the Kenya Wildlife Service, to save them from the animals that have been giving them sleepless nights since January. Simon Kamau said hippos descended on his two-acre farm and destroyed maize, beans and peas, leaving him with nothing to feed his family. He said it is unfortunate that even after seeking help from the KWS, nothing has been done, not even visiting the affected farms to assess the damage. Kamau said KWS officers only flock the village to terrorise residents if they kill wild animals. “Soon the whole village will be queuing at the local chief’s office to seek food aid, yet we have been working hard on our farms. The hippos are impoverishing us,” Kamau said. Patrick Mwendwa, whose crops on one and a half acres have been destroyed, said the problem could have resulted from lack of enough grass for the animals to feed on along the lake. “Before there was enough grass along the lake, but lately these animals are coming to look for food in the village, 4km away from the lake,” he said. About 800 hippos are said to live around the only lake which is also home to over 200 bird species. Veronicah Gatero said the only solution to this human-wildlife conflict is to fence off the lake. She said after the lake was gazetted in 2018, local farmers were assured it would be fenced off to stop the hippos from destroying their farms. This is yet to be done. Nyumba Kumi elder Patrick Mumo expressed fears that the hippos might end up attacking and killing people and their livestock. Nyandarua KWS senior game warden Gabriel Kiio on Sunday afternoon denied claims that no step has been taken to help the farmers. He said KWS officers have camped at the village to keep the animals away. Kiio accused the farmers of not reporting to the KWS for assistance. “They should not complain to you while they don’t report to us. The problem is around the lake and they have to report for us to take action.  Edited by A.N