The 47 counties have assets worth Sh110 billion and liabilities of Sh57 billion mostly held in land and housing. The outgoing team of the Intergovernmental Relations Technical Committee completed an inventory of all assets that the counties own. A new team has taken over the running of the committee on a six-year tenure. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa said the outgoing team had identified the assets which were at risk of being grabbed. Eugene said the committee had identified 62,342 parcels of land, over 70,000 buildings and 2,600 cars owned by defunct municipal councils. “According to the new report, counties have assets worth Sh110 billion and liabilities running to Sh57 billion and we are grateful to this committee for a job well done,” he said. He questioned the Sh4 billion budget proposal by the defunct Transition Authority, noting that the outgoing committee had used Sh400m. “The rehabilitation of the old Nairobi-Nanyuki railway line used Sh1 billion from the proposed Sh21 billion and it seems that there is a big problem in some departments,” he said. Speaking in Panorama Hotel in Naivasha during the handing over ceremony, Eugene expressed his concern over an increase in cases of inter-governmental disputes. “We are grateful that the IGRTC has helped solve some disputes between government institutions as the government has paid millions to lawyers during court cases,” he noted. On the current revenue allocation impasse, Eugene was optimistic that the Senate would help resolve the issue soonest possible. “We hope that there will be sobriety in the manner that the Senate debates and resolves this issue which is very critical in the running of counties,” he said. Outgoing vice-chairperson Allyce Kureiya said they had resolved 11 out of the 23 disputes between counties. “The biggest challenge we faced was interference from other bodies and we hope the new team will get full support from the state,” she said. Acting chairman John Burugu was optimistic that they would deliver after their term tenure was confirmed to six years. “We are ready to tackle the pending disputes between counties and we shall seek the support of the state in reaching our objectives,” he said. (edited by o. owino)