There might be uncertainty over when the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) elections will be held but that has not stopped aspirants from declaring their interest in the President’s seat. The latest entrant is former Nyanza NEC member Tom Alila. The 52-year-old businessman, whose father Nelson Alila Onyango served as a Kenya Football Federation (KFF) administrator, says his emphasis will be on streamlining grassroot football by incorporating counties to support the leagues, establishing proper and sustainable youth structure, introducing footballers welfare scheme and securing sponsorship for all leagues. “I have a good plan for Kenyan football but my short term goals are ensuring the extension of Kenyan Premier League Limited mandate to run the top tier league, securing sponsorship for football leagues, professionalising women football, enhancing the capacity for refs and coaches in order to raise the standard of professionalism in the game,” Alila stated. Alila called upon the Nick Mwendwa regime to convene a stakeholders meeting to ensure all parties agree upon modalities towards the election. “Further, all sub branch clubs should be given a say to decide on their football leaders unlike its present status, where only 72 delegates elects the national office bearers,” he demanded. The former NEC member who hails from Homabay, also emphasised on the safety of players as the sports resumption committee began receiving views and opinions on best way to get back to sports in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. Alila said it’s high time all sports federations give full support to the Sports Dispute Tribunal to arbitrate sports matters instead of undermining it by filing sports disputes at the court of law, citing the tussle between SDT and the current football regime. Alila served as NEC member for one term in Nyanza from 2013 under Sam Nyamweya but feels he is the right man to bring sanity and prosperity in managing the game. The FKF presidency, which has attracted many candidates will see Alila battle it out against Mwendwa, Herbert Mwachiro, Sammy Sholei, Nicholas Musonye, Steven Mburu, Moses Akaranga, Alex Ole Magelo, Harun Shivachi, Cosmus Nabongolo and Sam Nyamweya. FKF, however is yet to set clear guidelines pertaining to the elections as well as the date for the exercise after it’s two previous polls were voided by John Ohaga’s SDT.