The Nyeri government will this year start putting in place infrastructure in Kiganjo area to enable people develop industrial plots that have been lying idle for years. The infrastructure will include rehabilitating roads, installing electricity and water, among others in the industrial town. The town served as a railway station before rail transportation collapsed. Governor Mutahi Kahiga said the plots in the industrial satellite town on the outskirts of Nyeri town were earmarked for development over 30 years ago, but have never been developed. He said the initiative will enable people who intend to set up godowns and who can provide cargo for transportation on rail to start building. The governor spoke during an inspection tour of the ongoing revival of the Nairobi–Nanyuki railway in Kiganjo in Nyeri on Friday. The meeting brought together three governors from the Central Region Economic Bloc (CEREB), Kenya Railways Corporation (KRC) officials and investors. Kahiga said the collapse of the railway transport led to the collapse of industries in the town. He said it was worrying that the focus on the survival of the railway would be dependent on the goodwill of Vivo Energy, saying if they pull out, then the line will collapse. He therefore said there is a need to ensure that small entrepreneurs and industries that collapsed are revived so that the rail transport is sustained. “I am glad that we have the Kiganjo station, Karatina, and we are going to get Chaka station. But it is important that we start thinking about not only those conglomerates, but also the small-scale industries that will help us move and sustain this railway,” he said. The governor expressed hope that the engines will be modernised so that the cargo can be moved faster. He called on KRC to give people time before moving to demolish buildings on corporate land that are marked for demolition. “This is our baby, and we must ensure it succeeds and as we do that, we must wear the human face and ensure that men and women who have invested are not made paupers overnight,” he said in reference to the encroachers. He said trains could continue to operate as people make a living and as the county gets alternative land for them. Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi said the revival of the railway in a record six months is a testimony of what can happen if government departments can pull together to do their work. He said the revival of the railway will build the economy and create jobs for residents. Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia said the second phase should be extended to Gilgil and Nyahururu through Ol Kalou. “As you know, railways become the exclusive economic zones inside land territory and this is why we are very passionate,” Kimemia said. He said there was a need to think about using railway land to set up industrial parks so SMEs and jua kali could be developed along the line, which will enable Kenyans to see the railway as an economic enabler. Edited by A.N