Mwingi clerics have castigated the strict guidelines imposed by the government for resumption of church services. Archbishop Julius Nyerere of Messiaship Church in Mwingi town said they were grateful that churches would be reopened. “Church leaders are prepared to adhere to health guidelines in our churches as worship resumes,” he said. However, Nyerere appealed to interfaith council to review the guidelines and consult widely with other bishops. “A one-hour service is not enough to worship God considering Sunday is the only day we worship as Christians. The council should revisit the set hours for God to be accorded the respect He commands,” the bishop said. He also questioned restrictions on attendance for certain age groups. “Most preachers are above the age of 58 years. Does it mean they will not conduct service even after the churches reopen?" he asked. The President announced on Monday that even as churches are set to reopen children below 13 years will not be allowed in the worship centres. Pentecostal bishops were not included in the interfaith council chaired by Nyeri Catholic Archbishop Anthony Muheria, Nyerere said. He appealed to the council to consult them and especially those in rural areas to give their input. “I appeal to bishops countrywide to dedicate our lives to prayer and fasting for this country and our leaders,” he said. John Mbiti of St Patrick Catholic Church in Migwani lauded the President for reopening churches. But he said the regulations made it almost impossible for Christians to go back to church. “I urge the committee to check on the number of the congregants as most churches have a lot of worshipers and everyone misses going to church,” he said. Pastor Peter Mwanzia of World Compassion Church in Migwani, Mwingi West, said his church would try and meet the guidelines put by the government. "We miss the worship centres and we will do all it takes to go back to church,” he said. Pastor Samuel Kinyungu of God’s Revelation Church in Mwingi said although the guidelines are tough, his congregants are ready to worship. “When the President announced reopening of churches, some of my congregants rushed to the church to clean it in readiness for the opening," he said. Edited by Henry Makori