The government has increased surveillance to avert a potential outbreak of Rift Valley fever. This comes as the FAO Rift Valley fever May forecast indicated a high risk of the disease outbreak in the region, both in animals and humans in the coming months. UN attributed this to favourable environmental conditions and/or through animal movement. The Meteorological Department's July weather outlook indicated that counties in the Lake Victoria Basin Region, Highlands West of the Rift Valley, North, Central and Southern Rift Valley, northern coastal strip as well as the North-western parts of the country are likely to experience enhanced rainfall. According to FAO, Rift Valley fever is a viral zoonotic disease that is transmitted by mosquitoes and can cause severe symptoms in animals and humans. The disease can result in death and abortion in RVF-infected livestock. This epizootic disease in animals, which spills over to the human population, tends to develop extremely rapidly following abnormally high seasonal rainfall at the local, national or regional scale. To intensify Rift Valley fever alertness, FAO last week handed over personal protective equipment to the Director of Veterinary Services in readiness for early detection. FAO Representative to Kenya Tobias Takavarasha said during the handover that this is part of the support to enhance syndromic surveillance for Rift Valley Fever, leading to early detection of suspected outbreaks. The PPE kits included coveralls, boot covers, goggles, respirators (FFP2), respirators (FFP3), long inner gloves, long outer gloves, lab coats and exam gloves. “We continue to partner with the Department of Veterinary Services, with whom we recognise the important role it plays in ensuring optimum animal health in Kenya, as well as the overall contribution of livestock to the economy,” said Takavarasha. Senior Deputy Director of Veterinary Services Charles Ochodo said 90 per cent of disease control programmes is the responsibility of the counties and that is where the PPEs will be distributed. “The counties go out to discover the diseases before they become big problems as diseases know no boundaries,” he said. Ochodo said a RVF outbreak is likely to affect local animal markets and reduce the direct household income, which will further affect community’s capacities to access healthcare and child education. On October 16 last year, FAO Animal Health and IGAD Centre for Climate Prediction and Application predicted that expected rains in Eastern Africa would bring potential RVF outbreaks in the coming months. This forecast was followed by an alert sent out on December 12 that year by the FAO Chief Veterinary Officer to the FAO representatives in high-risk countries, in order to increase awareness and coordination on RVF preparedness and response efforts. Takavarasha added that the Zoonotic Disease Unit, with support from FAO, implemented an enhanced syndromic surveillance for RVF from December last year to June 2020. This, he said, was done in 660 households distributed across seven RVF high-risk counties including Wajir, Kajiado, Murang’a, Tana River, Siaya, Baringo and Kilifi. In addition, FAO supplied Elisa testing kits to facilitate screening for RVF. “A weekly analysis of ESS reports have enabled the government to identify and flag out Tana River, Kajiado and Wajir as counties that need further investigations due to high proportions of human-RVF like illnesses. In response, the Kenyan government has established a multisector mechanism for coordinated response to zoonotic disease outbreaks in the sectors of human and animal health,” he said. Increased RVF surveillance and preparedness in Kenya was made possible through the Usaid-funded Global Health Security Agenda to address Zoonotic Diseases and Animal Health in Africa.