Kitui MCAs will use private body guards if their security cannot be guaranteed, majority leader Peter Kilonzo has said. Kilonzo said the security teams in the county were no longer able to assure them of their safety. He said all the 54 MCAs should each be allowed to recruit 10 private body guards to protect them. The majority leader moved a motion on the status of insecurity in Kitui on Wednesday. He claimed that MCAs moved around armed with pangas for self-defence. Kilonzo lamented that the police appeared both hopeless and helpless as hoodlums and goons attacked MCAs visiting government offices in broad daylight. The culprits are allowed to move around scot-free, he said. Kilonzo said that MCAs Charles Maema (Kivou) and Alex Mwangangi (Kyome) were recently assaulted by the goons. He said Kanziku MCA James Munuve was also attacked at a mini supermarket in Kitui town. The majority leader said the insecurity problem also affected residents and county officials. Recently, he said, the chief officer for Environment Clement Munyithya was attacked in his office. “I personally received a text message telling me that I would be beheaded. They asked me silly questions through SMS and I also responded in a silly style,” Kilonzo said. The MCAs passed the motion. They urged the Kitui Directorate of Criminal Investigations to fast-track investigations on the attacks. They said the security teams should always be on high alert to protect the people of Kitui. Kilonzo said police should be able to prevent criminal acts on residents. “It would be futile for me to report to the police when my rib or back has been broken by the goons,” Kilonzo said. Nguni MCA Jeferson Kiruru said ward representatives were faced with stage-managed insecurity issues. “It is unbelievable that we cannot walk around freely in our own county. This is the most insecure county in Kenya,” Kiruru said. Ikutha MCA Geoffrey Mwalimu said constant threats on MCAs had made it difficult for them to offer leadership to the people. “Those goons and hooligans are well known and the security of Kitui people is at stake,” he said. Mwalimu added that it was time authorities in Kitui gave the insecurity concerns the weight they deserved.  (edited by o. owino)