Three suspects linked to the murder of a woman found dead outside a Kilimani flat will report to the area police station for 30 days as investigations proceed. Milimani chief magistrate Martha Mutuku granted the police a month to compile their report into the murder of Sheila Muruge. Muruge was found dead near a flower bed on July 17 after a night of partying. The suspects, Shem Ng’eno, Christine Awour and Claire Chepkoech were all released on Sh100,000 bond or Sh50,000 cash bail each. Investigating officer Joseph Nderitu told the court that police had obtained samples from Ng'eno’s DNA and that they were under examination at the Government Chemist. The detective added that his team was waiting for the results to decide the way forward and that the case file had been sent to the DPP for perusal. Police sought the DNA profiling following reports that Njeri had been sexually assaulted as vaginal swabs revealed the presence of semen. The court directed the suspects to report to the Kilimani DCI every Monday until August 28, when the case will be mentioned for further directions. Detectives are expected to inform the court of the outcome of the investigation in which CCTV footage will also be analysed. On Thursday last week, the suspect’s lawyer Cliff Ombeta told the court that his clients were unwell and that detaining them at a police station would expose them to Covid-19 as the police do not have masks for suspects. The trio was arrested on July 17 at Santonio Courts. Police said Njeri’s body was lying near a flower bed and had injuries on the back and bruises on the waist. Blood oozed from the nose and her clothes were torn. Preliminary investigations showed that the woman and some people, the suspects included, had been drinking and having fun in Chepkoech's house - No B03. The suspects gave contradictory statements when questioned on Muruge’s whereabouts. The victim's body is awaiting a postmortem examination. The case will be mentioned on August 28. Edited by R.Wamochie