Counties were on Thursday left on the brink of a cash crisis after President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM boss Raila Odinga failed to rein in their senators to pass the revenue sharing formula. The lawmakers failed, for the fourth time, to debate and pass the contentious third basis for sharing revenue among the 47 counties, putting the devolved units, some of which rely entirely on the Exchequer, on the edge. The formula will guide how counties share the national cake for the next five years. The stalemate on the formula, which has been pending in the Senate for more than a year, has stalled the passage of the County Allocation of Revenue Bill to allow for cash disbursements. The Bill splits the national cake among the counties. On Thursday, Speaker Kenneth Lusaka unexpectedly adjourned the special sitting convened to approve the formula moments after Majority Leader Samuel Poghisio sought an adjournment, sparking protests from a section of the senators. Poghisio had requested for adjournment on the floor but neither moved a motion nor was the same seconded and approved by the members as provided for in the Standing Orders. “The speaker has adjourned the meeting in the most unprocedural manner. The motion was not even moved, not seconded,” Minority chief whip Mutula Kilonzo Jr said. As the speaker walked down the aisle after adjourning the session, senators poured out in protest, chanting: “Shame! Shame! Shame!”, pointing to the anxiety and the fireworks that would have ensued on the floor. On Thursday, it emerged that the senators, even after weeks of negotiations that roped in Raila and the President, had failed to reach a middle ground on the continuous formula with two opposing sides standing their ground. At the heart of the contention is the formula proposed by the Finance and Budget Committee, which, if adopted, would see 18 counties lose up to Sh17 billion from their last financial year’s allocations. Last week, Majority Chief Whip Irungu Kangata and Mutula told the Star that they had reached out to Raila and other political leaders to help broker a deal. Kangata admitted facing challenges pushing the formula, which he termed the President’s agenda. Committee chairman Charles Kibiru (Kirinyaga) has vouched for formula, saying it ensures equity as it factors the 2019 population data as opposed to the old formula which used ‘wrong’ data. The proposal gives more weight to population, unlike the current one that places more weight on the landmass. But senators from the ‘losing’ counties mainly from the less populous Coast, Northeastern, lower Eastern, parts of Rift Valley and parts of Nyanza have vehemently rejected the proposal. A threshold of 24 senators is required to pass or defeat the committee’s formula, termed the “Linturi formula.” “They adjourned because they knew that the Linturi formula was going nowhere. They had no numbers. They feared embarrassment,” Mutula, whose Makueni county is on the losing list, said. Mutula disclosed that they had categorically told the President and Raila that they would reject the ‘discriminative’ formula. “We have told them (Raila and Uhuru) that we cannot pass a formula which denies 18 counties their money. They are aware. Even if they were pushing the formula by the committee, we have refused it,” Mutula said. Deputy Majority Leader Fatuma Dullo (Isiolo) also opposed the committee proposal, saying the method would ground services in the counties. “For us, the Linturi’s formula is not favourable because, for example, Isiolo is losing Sh869 million when I have a budget of Sh4.2 billion. It means that we are going to close down the county,” she said. On Thursday, the senators opposing the committee proposal were armed with three other formulae seeking to amend the one fronted by the committee. Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja, whose county is among the gainers, joined the ‘losing’ bandwagon in rejecting the committee’s proposal. Sakaja, Mutula and Ledama Ole Kina (Narok) fronted different methods and simulations seeking to amend the one proposed by the committee. “If I gain by Sh100 million, which is 0.6 per cent of Nairobi budget, yet my colleague is losing 30 per cent of their budget, isn’t that a threat to devolution?” Sakaja said. The lawmakers said some senators were invoking the name of the President in an attempt to win support for the disputed formula. Nominated Senator Agnes Zani said, "I want to urge politicians, some whom we have heard speaking recently and seeking populism while disparaging ODM party, to desist. Fairness is what we are trying to work on and we shall endeavour to see to it that no county loses from 2020-21's Sh316.5 billion allocated to counties for sharing." In the committee's proposal, the parameters of basic shareable revenue and population have been allocated 20 per cent and 18 per cent respectively, Health (17 per cent) and poverty (14 per cent). Others are agriculture (10 per cent), access to roads (6 per cent), landmass (8 per cent) and revenue effort (collections) and fiscal prudence one per cent. Among the biggest losers are Wajir, Mandera and Marsabit Counties whose allocation will be cut by Sh1.9 billion, Sh1.8 billion and Sh1.8 billion respectively if the formula is implemented. Garissa faces a reduction of Sh1.2 billion, Tana River Sh1.5 billion, Mombasa Sh1.6 billion, Kwale Sh995 million, Narok Sh887 million and Isiolo Sh879 million. The formula will also see Kilifi losing Sh878 million, Turkana Sh450 million, Kitui Sh219 million, Makueni Sh302 million, Samburu Sh294 million, Taita Taveta Sh388 million, Tharaka Nithi Sh367 million, and Vihiga Sh361 million. The top gainers are Nandi (Sh1.4 billion), Uasin Gishu (Sh1.2 billion), Nakuru (Sh1.2 billion), Kakamega (Sh997 million), Kiambu (Sh986 million) and Bungoma (Sh837 million). Others are Kirinyaga (Sh779 million), West Pokot (Sh777 million), Baringo (Sh722 million), Bomet (Sh673 million) and Siaya (Sh642 million). Edited by Henry Makori