It is very unfortunate that Deputy President William Ruto is crying foul and playing the victim card. What President Uhuru Kenyatta has done by bringing on board erstwhile rivals has rattled Ruto and his Tangatanga allies. It is said that while the President is trying to put together a team to help him execute his agenda, his deputy is pulling in the opposite direction. In fact, the President had been quite tolerant and patient when Ruto and his Tangatanga MPs were jumping up and down, bragging that they had the numbers. Ruto himself claimed he had more than 140 MPs allied to his faction when he wrote protest letters to the Registrar of Political Parties to challenge changes to a Jubilee Party organ That was outright defiance of the President and the  highest degree of insubordination. Definitely, such acts forced the President to crack the whip in Parliament to assert his authority and steady his agenda. I am bewildered when Ruto's allies say they have been unfairly de-whipped from committees or leadership positions. Those positions were given to MPs courtesy of the party. It is unfortunate that they are crying foul when they have lost the positions while the rest did not complain when today's complainers were intially appointed. Every member of Parliament belongs to a political party and is qualified to serve in a leadership position in Parliament or its committees. No single lawmaker or faction is entitled to a position. The committees are first supposed to serve the people and not factional interests. Parliament is supposed to be the House of Representatives of the people of Kenya. My thinking is that the Deputy President is very bitter with the President's handshake with former Prime Minister Raila Odinga and his working arrangements with other leaders including former Vice President and Wiper  leader Kalonzo Musyoka. If these changes had been made in the first five-year term, the country could have made a lot of progress. It is important for a leader to work together with others to achieve progress. The Wiper Party national vice chairman spoke to the Star. 