The National Land Commission has issued a Gazette notice to acquire land in Likoni for the construction of a Sh1.5 billion floating bridge. In May, the Kenya National Highways Authority and China Roads and Bridge Corporation signed a deal to build a 660-metre suspension pedestrian bridge across the Likoni crossing channel. National Land Commission (NLC) chairperson Gershom Otachi, in a Gazette notice dated July 6, said the government intends to acquire three parcels measuring about 3.5 acres adjacent to the channel. The parcels are Mombasa/Block XLVII/67, which is 2.1 acres registered under Simba Colt Motors Limited; and Mombasa/MS/Block 1/1815 measuring 0.75 acres; and Mombasa MS/Block/1/1816 (0.72 acres). The last two are owned by Koifan Developers Limited. “Plans of the affected land may be inspected during office hours at the office of the National Land Commission, Ardhi House, Nairobi, and the Mombasa county coordination office,” Otachi said. In previous media interviews, Coast regional coordinator John Elungata said the bridge would begin from Liwatoni area on Mombasa Island to Raspovu on the mainland near the Kenya Ferry Services headquarters. Guard rails will be installed on either side of the deck to ensure the safety of users. “Once completed, the bridge will end the perennial traffic congestion, which is usually experienced at the Likoni crossing channel,” Eluganta said. At least 300,000 people and 6,000 vehicles use the Likoni crossing channel every day. The Kenya Ferry Services operates six ferries: MV Safari, MV Jambo, MV Harambee, MV Likoni, MV Kwale and MV Kilindini. MVs Jambo and Safari are the newest ferries, while MVs Kwale and Likoni were bought in the early 2000s. MVs Harambee and Kilindini were purchased in the 1990s. The older ferries have been experiencing perennial breakdowns, causing a scare among users. Any small hiccup at the channel usually leads to congestion and huge traffic snarl-up of up to one kilometre. The footbridge is to be completed by December and from then the ferries will only be used to carry vehicles.