We have been using YouTube to watch and upload videos but the downside with the application is a lot of advertisements that are a nuisance when watching a video. You have to wait for almost two or three minutes for an ad to end. You Tube’s free hosting comes with unlimited storage that makes it incredibly an enticing option for online video hosting. There is an alternative for YouTube which is Dailymotion which its business model focuses on monetization through ads and it’s free. Dailymotion offers analytics for its users who engage in video monetization and advertising. It offers several advertising options for marketers including instream, display, and rich media formats. This is opposed to YouTube which will serve adverts for the accounts that have accumulated more than 10, 000 total views. The video-on-demand programs on this app allow the content creators to sell their videos, get to choose the price, format and the player of the video can broadcast on Dailymotion. They will also receive access to statistics for these videos. It has three privacy settings just like YouTube but on the Private videos on this app, they are only visible to the uploader. It has password-protected settings where the uploader is allowed to create a password and share it with a select few. This platform allows users to upload content up to 4GBand with a resolution of 1080 pixels while YouTube tends to compress them. Another alternative is DTube which is an ad-free platform that uses Steem Blockchain to keep records. The advantage of Steem over other comparable Blockchain solutions is that it is entirely free which means that users do not have to make initial deposits and there are no transaction fees. One of the advantages of this platform is that the video publishers will earn money as well as the users who leave comments. If you are a YouTube fan and want to switch to DTube, the interface is similar to that of YouTube and will not find it difficult to move to this platform. All of the contents on this platform are stored on the Blockchain which means that it will be hard for hackers to tamper with your video content. It is unlikely that your personal data will leak and the community controls the platform. It does not serve you ads or recommendation algorithms but it supports free speech. All the creators have the opportunity to earn cryptocurrency revenue. It does not have content moderation and the users control their accounts using the upvote and downvote functionality. The downside of this platform is that there is not too much content on it such as gaming, fitness and music.