National Police Service wants the government to expedite issuance of title deeds for land occupied by the police. Deputy Inspector General of Police Njoroge Mbugua said that this will end land ownership disputes between the police and individuals in the community as well as secure police land from being encroached. Speaking after officially opening the newly-built Githurai-Mwiki police station in Githurai 45, Ruiru sub-county, Mbugua noted that the National Land Commission has already been mandated to issue the vital ownership documents to public land including police stations. “We are aware that there have been incidents of encroachment of land given by the community for development of police stations. This will be solved by issuing title deeds for the land occupied by the police and ward off invaders,” Mbugua said. The DIG, who also inspected the land where a new police station will be developed in Mutuya area within Mwihoko ward, said that land ownership disputes regarding police land that have been lodged by individuals in courts will await ruling by the courts. “The courts will rule on who is legitimately entitled to occupy the parcels,” he said. The police boss was accompanied by Ruiru MP Simon King’ara, Kiambu County Police Commander Ali Nunow and other officials. Some of the police stations that are in dispute with individuals and groups over ownership of their land in Kiambu County include Gatundu North police station at Kamwangi town and Makongeni police station in Thika sub-county. MP King’ara reiterated that a Bill he has tabled in Parliament compelling the Government to issue title deeds to public amenities like police stations, markets, hospitals and schools across the country will save public land from being grabbed. King’ara said the Bill is already with the House Business Committee awaiting second reading in Parliament. “I’ve lobbied with my colleagues and they support it because it is for the public benefit,” he said. The MP also divulged that plans to construct three other police stations in the constituency are in top gear. Ruiru residents welcomed the new police station saying it will help create a conducive environment for doing business. The newly-opened police station in Githurai 45 is expected to boost security in the area that has in the recent past witnessed high crime rates. DIG Mbugua said that 40 police officers will be deployed at the station.