Mombasa businessman Suleiman Shahbal is creating a network of political and socio-economic minds he intends to use to build his brand. Shahbal, a Jubilee politician, has had at least six meetings with veteran politicians in Mombasa in the last five weeks as he plots for a third stab at the Mombasa governorship. His aides and close allies say the career banker has learnt vital lessons in the last two general elections and is much wiser now. Beatrice Gambo, the Jubilee coordinator in Mombasa county, said Shahbal has been tapping political wisdom from veteran politicians in the county. So far, he has met at least five veteran politicians including former Changamwe MP Ramadhan Kajembe, former Mombasa mayor Ahmed Mohdhar and former Likoni MP Masoud Mwahima. He has also met at least three economic experts in that same period. “These are people who have been here for long and you need to tap wisdom from these legends in this political process,” Gambo said. Shahbal has insisted that only through unity of purpose can Mombasa claim its lost glory as an economic hub. Apart from the coronavirus pandemic, the SGR has had a significant negative impact on the county’s economy. However, Shahbal says there is no need to keep lamenting over spilt milk. Instead, he has called on leaders to focus on and take advantage of other economic opportunities like the Dongo Kundu Special Economic Zone, which he says has bigger potential than the Mombasa port. “When the cheese has moved, you move with the cheese,” he said. Shahbal is not only meeting veteran politicians but also the current leadership privately. Apart from Governor Hassan Joho, he has had a private meeting with Likoni MP Mishi Mboko. Janet Mbete, a close ally of the politician, said the two had a meeting about a month ago at her Likoni home. “It was a friendly meeting. He came to visit me when I was sick and since I am neighbours with Mishi, he said he should say hello to her as well,” Mbete said. Mboko had also declared interest in succeeding Joho as governor but has since gone quiet. Other meetings with other high profile individuals in Mombasa have taken place, one of his aides told the Star in confidence on Sunday. “What he is building is something that I have not seen before. It is going to shake this county. I think he has learnt vital lessons from the last two general elections,” said the aide, who requested anonymity. Mbete said Shahbal is a man of the people and that he has had several lunches with high profile people. “It is not surprising. He has been meeting ODM leader Raila Odinga and Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju. The thing about Shahbal is that he likes collating ideas. That’s his greatest strength,” Mbete said. Mbete is one of Shahbal’s trusted people he keeps in his inner circle. Shabhal plans to retain most of the team he has been working with during the 2013 and the 2017 campaign periods. Gambo said there were bigger plans ahead. “We are creating inroads so as to be able to work well especially now that the BBI report is about to be released,” Gambo said. She said once President Uhuru and Raila receive the report, they will set in motion a machinery that will ensure all Mombasa residents read and understand the report and its benefits to them. According to sources close to Shahbal, there are also plans to speak to the different parties at the Coast so as to come up with an understanding on the best way to address Mombasa issues. “Mombasa is dear to Shahbal and that is why he has chosen to work with the current leadership so as to ensure the county thrives,” said Gambo. Talks, she said, were already under way. This confirms Shahbal’s sentiments on June 16 when he launched a revision website for KCPE and KCSE candidates at Sparki primary. The Jubilee politician then said the county’s and region’s leaders had already started unity talks just like their Western counterparts. Edited by Henry Makori