Taita Taveta county has joined the growing list of counties that have met the targeted 300 Covid-19 beds. The national and county governments had agreed on July 10 as the deadline for all counties to have set up 300 beds to deal with the coronavirus pandemic. Health Services executive John Mwakima revealed that the department had met all the requirements, saying they were prepared to handle the increasing number of cases. “The department has now enough capacity to handle the Covid-19 patients in the event that there is a surge in infections,” Mwakima said. By Saturday, the county had no active coronavirus case in the isolation wards. However, eight people who tested positive on Wednesday at a hotel inside Tsavo National Park have been isolated. The workers had resumed work after months of closed business and were placed under isolation at the hotel. Mwakima said the beds have been installed at Moi County Referral Hospital in Voi, Wesu, Mwatate and Taveta hospitals. Others are in Rekeke, Mghange Mwanda, Maungu and Bura health centres. “The county government contracted Coast Institute of Technology to make a total of 240 beds to add to the existing number of beds,” he said. The executive said at least 160 beds shall be placed at the county’s Covid-19 isolation ward at Mwatate hospital. Five ventilators and ICU beds have also been put in place at the isolation ward to handle patients in critical condition. He said health workers with specialised skills have been trained on handling coronavirus patients and management of the new ICU section. Mwakima said, “We have increased our workforce at the isolation ward in a bid to deal with earlier cases of understaffing. A total of 153 healthcare workers have also been contracted through the Universal Healthcare Coverage programme.” The healthcare workers, he said, have been deployed across the county. The county has further partnered with National Division of Disease, Surveillance and Response and the Council of Imams and Preachers of Kenya for training aimed at minimising the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. Speaking during the training in Voi, county epidemiologist Urbanus Kioko urged medical practitioners and the general public to take precautions when providing care to all patients regardless of what they are ailing from. "Health care facilities have become transmission hotspots where medics unknowingly get infected and spread this virus to innocent people seeking medical services," Kioko said. Edited by Henry Makori