Recuperating Sofapaka midfielder Brian Magonya is looking forward to kick the ball for the first time this year in September. Magonya went under the knife on December 15 last year after tearing his knee meniscus while on club duty against Western Stima in October at the Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos The fast-rising creative midfielder revealed that he began his gym work under the watchful eye of club doctor Ambrose Oriko last month in a bid to regain strength ahead of his return to the pitch. "The doctor told me I will be ready to kick the ball in two months time. It has been long on the sidelines and I can't wait to be cleared to play again. I have been doing thorough gym work in the past few weeks and the progress is good. I first got injured against Stima where I was ruled out for two weeks. However, there was discomfort in my knee and after scans, I realised I had a grade three tear," said the midfielder Magonya said the break activated by the coronavirus pandemic proved a blessing in disguise for him and a number of injured players who ply their trade in the Kenyan Premier League and abroad. Others who have capitalised on the break to heal are former Harambee Stars defender Jockins Atudo, Ulinzi Stars striker Oscar Wamalwa and Posta Rangers striker Calvin Odongo. "The pandemic grounded a number of activities including sports but it has given me time to heal. I am not in a hurry to resume training since it's still uncertain on when the government will allow sports to resume. I believe other injured players in the league and from other disciplines have also benefited from the break," he said. Meanwhile, the player hailed the club's assistant skipper Elly Asieche and the duo of Mohammed Kilume and Willis Obayi for their words of inspiration since the time he was sidelined. He vowed to give his best in training in a bid to reclaim his place in the starting team in the new season. " ilume has been a constant visitor and has been encouraging me to have faith that I will recover fully. I also thank Asieche and Obayi for being there for me in different ways."