Key development projects by the national government in Lamu have failed to be completed as scheduled. Completion of the Sh1.1 billion Mokowe urban road has been rescheduled to December, 14 months behind schedule. The 15km road project which commenced in May 2017 is being undertaken by the Kenya Urban Roads Authority (Kura). The completion rate is currently at 67 per cent, way slower than anticipated. Speaking on Tuesday, Kura corporate communications assistant director John Cheboi said encroachment of land earmarked for the road was among the major reasons for the delay in completion. He also cited insecurity and delayed payment of the contractor as among the huddles faced by the project over the years. He, however, said the contractor had scaled up equipment and staff to hasten the project. “We are confident that by December this year the road will be done. The encroachers have vacated and the security of the contractor has been improved. The contractor has picked up pace as we speak,” Cheboi said. Once completed, the Mokowe urban road will link all public facilities, improve the general security in the region and facilitate easy access to the Mokowe county headquarters and its environs. The road is also expected to provide easy access to the upcoming new Lamu Port (Lapsset) project in Kililana village which is about two kilometres from Mokowe town. It is also anticipated that the road will lead to growth in trade and attract more investors to Mokowe town, which borders the new Lamu Port project. The biggest project ever in the region, which is the Sh2.5 trillion new Lapsset, is yet to be completed. The first berth is complete and was to be commissioned by the President last year but the event failed to take off. The berth was initially to be completed by end of 2018. The second and third berths are expected to be ready by end of the year. Putting up the three berths cost the national government Sh48 billion. The Lapsset project is expected to provide employment opportunities to the Lamu population. Completion of the Sh10.8 billion Lamu-Garsen road, initially scheduled for April 2020, has since been moved to June 2021. Resident engineer and consultant Willis Ingari said insecurity and inconsistent cash flow to the contractor as well as bad weather were the key contributors to the delay in completion. The road is 132km long. The 21km Witu-Panganguo road in Lamu West is deplorable and untouched four years after the government promised to have it rehabilitated in 2017. Edited by Henry Makori