Besides strengthening the senior team, Tusker are keen to revamp their youth team which will feature in the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Division Two Eastern zone in the new season. Tusker chairman, Daniel Aduda, said they are looking for funds to motivate the youngsters and retain the outstanding ones with an aim of integrating them into the senior team. The club has in the previous season adopted a policy of promoting at least two rookies to the senior team and Aduda believes should the junior side secure shirt sponsorship, deserving players will earn playing time in the top flight. Last season, the Ruaraka-based club promoted the duo of Eric Zakayo and Mario Kakai to the senior team. Aduda observed that the youth team had been losing star players to other teams who were offering better packages. He revealed that he had engaged their parent sponsor to stretch their helping hand over to the youth teams. He also opened up on their intentions to bring in one or two players to the senior team to seal the loopholes identified by coach Robert Matano. "We have been focusing a lot on the senior team but this time round we are looking for funds for our junior side. We want to recruit young players and ensure their welfare is well catered for unlike in the past where we have been giving them bus fare and allowances albeit once in a blue moon.We have been promoting two rookies to the senior team but we hope with a strong team, many will even compete for places in the big team and other big clubs," he said. "Apart from the youth team,we are aware that coach Matano had requested for one or two players and we have to avail resources for him to achieve the targets which we have set for him," he added. Meanwhile, Aduda denied reports that the club had sealed a sponsorship deal with Nigerian-based betting firm, Betking. FKF unveiled the firm as the official sponsor for the top flight and the national Division One competitions starting from next season. "It's true we are looking for more partners  but we have not held any talks with the bookmaker at all. I have read online that we have nailed down a new sponsor which is not true. We are still negotiating with a host of firms but none of them is in the business of sports betting," he added.