Kenyans from all walks of life yesterday took to social media to convey their 'get well soon' messages to former Harambee Stars skipper Musa Otieno. The former defender who is Stars most capped player was admitted at the Mbagathi Hospital last week for a Covid-19 related illness. Since the first case was reported in the country, the former Santos' player has been in the fore-front in distributing relief food in the slums. Musa was reportedly taken to hospital by family and friends on Friday last week after developing fever. “I received a phone call from one of my friends Jay Khamisi telling me that former Harambee Stars captain Musa Otieno Ongao has been seen at IDH Hospital but does not look in good shape. I immediately called the captain and talked to him to find out what's the problem. He told me he was having some high fever and was feeling a bit weak,"said Musa's friend Athanas Obala. Football Kenya Federation (FKF) President Nick Mwendwa took to his official twitter account to wish the retired centre half, who has since ventured into coaching, a quick recovery. “Get better Captain....We pray for you,”  he tweeted Former champions AFC Leopards followed suit: “From AFC Leopards fraternity, we wish Ingwe legend, Musa 'Otero' Otieno a rapid and full recovery. Keep your spirits up champ,”read a tweet from the den. “Get well soon, coach Musa Otieno,” wrote FKF's head of communication and Public Relations Ken Okaka.  “Quick recovery to my friend and legend Musa ‘Oteshe’ Otieno who’s been admitted and currently responding well to treatment,” said Sofapaka striker Ronald Okoth According to Obala, several tests were done after he was rushed to hospital but the medics  requested him to return home and come back for the results after four days. "I advised him not to return home but go to Kenyatta National Hospital for further checks. I immediately contacted his elder brother Barrack "Ogoji"Ouma, FKF deputy president Doris Petra and Dr. Andrew Sule who immediately swung into action. Musa was later put on oxygen and later admitted at KNH ward 7," Obala revealed in his post. More tests were done including one for Covid-19. I have been in constant contact with the family and doctors and I want to assure the football family that our legend is responding well to treatment,"assured, Obala who is an official of the Kenya Association of Former Footballers (KAFF), where Musa is a respected member. "We would want to wish our captain a quick recovery and let's keep on praying for our legend. This statement has been approved by the family,"Obala concluded. Petra confirmed that indeed Kenya's most capped football player was indeed on the recovery path.