The Kenya Bureau of Standards (Kebs) has delisted three companies manufacturing substandard face masks. Kebs in a statement on Tuesday said it carried out a countrywide surveillance on surgical face masks and established that some unscrupulous manufacturers and economic operators were taking advantage to sale substandard masks. The three include WAMNDAS manufactured by Wandas General Supplies, ARAX manufactured by Arax Mills and a brandless mask manufactured by Hela Intimates EPZ. Kebs said the use of substandard medical face-masks or even misuse is highly risky because it gives one a false sense of protection thereby increasing the risk of exposure. "Consequently, the manufacturers and importers of the said brands of products are instructed to discontinue manufacturing or offering for sale the affected brands of face masks," the statement read. The institution said the manufactures have been directed to recall all the substandard masks from the market and institute corrective actions whose effectiveness shall be confirmed by Kebs before the suspension of the standardization mark permits is lifted. "The manufacturers are also advised to strictly adhere to marking and labelling requirements as per the relevant standards," read part of the statement. Kebs appealed to members of the public to notify the organisation as and when they find these products in the market through its toll-free number 1545. "KEBS wishes to inform the general public that it is illegal to manufacture and offer for sale any product that has not been certified by Kebs as provided for under the Standards Act Cap 496, Laws of Kenya," it said. The institution further said its success as a regulator is to ensure consumers access quality products but a constitutional imperative, largely depends on the goodwill and collaboration with all stakeholders in the products value chain. It said traders and consumers have been advised to verify the authenticity of any quality marks on the label product offered to them. "Please note that any person who contravenes any of the provisions of subsections of the Standards Act, Cap 496, Laws of Kenya mentioned above or fails to comply with any conditions in a permit, shall be guilty of an offence," the statement noted.