An increasing number of Covid-19 patients initially have fatigue and a normal temperature but they deteriorate rapidly and must be admitted to hospital and ventilated. Fatigue is one of the non-classic Covid-19 symptoms that Kenyans should look out for, doctors say. Other patients, some without respiratory distress, experience blood clotting disorders that can lead to strokes and neurological problems such as confusion, headache and loss of taste and smell. Medical director at MP Shah Hospital Dr Vishal Patel advises Kenyans with severe fatigue, headache, confusion and other symptoms to be tested for coronavirus. He told the Star in an interview that early treatment with the right medication, such as Dexamethasone, significantly lowers transmission rates and mortality. "If you come out and seek help, then help can be provided and something can be done. Sometimes you may go down very fast with this disease, you may deteriorate very fast if you haven't really come out and sought help at an earlier stage," he said. MP Shah has admitted at least 88 patients since the pandemic reached Kenya. Dr Patel said most patients were still presenting with the classic symptoms of high fever, persistent dry cough. Nearly all of those seeking help early are being saved. Dr Patel said the main risk factor is old age. The older the patient, the higher the risk of developing severe disease. "We've seen quite a lot of the patients with cardiovascular disease getting severe Covid-19 and deteriorating towards critical disease; others are people with diabetes and cancer,” he said. For young people, a key risk factor may be to be obesity. "We have had a couple of younger patients who don't have other diseases but are obese and they have had a longer recovery period compared to other patients," Dr Patel said. The numbers of obese patients are not large enough so doctors can say everyone with that (obesity) spectrum is likely to have severe disease, he said. The medic added that the challenge is younger people in their 30s and 40s are at risk because of cardiovascular conditions, hypertension and metabolic diseases, such as diabetes. Blood clots also form in some Covid-19 patients. "So for patients with severe disease, and we see they don’t have a significant bleeding risk, we normally give them blood thinners,” Dr Patel said. A study led by Irish clinician scientists published in the British Journal of Haematology in April also found that Irish patients admitted with severe Covid-19 infection were experiencing abnormal blood clotting that contributed to death in some cases. "In addition to pneumonia affecting the small air sacs within the lungs, we are also finding hundreds of small blood clots throughout the lungs. This scenario is not seen with other types of lung infection, and explains why blood oxygen levels fall dramatically in severe Covid-19 infection," the authors said. In Kenya, only about five per cent of Covid-19 patients require critical care. Infectious diseases experts say early treatment of confirmed cases with the right medication significantly lowers transmission rates and deaths. (Edited by V. Graham)