A new FGM trend has emerged where cutters use fingernails to circumcise girls as young as a week old. Speaking during a baraza in Taita Taveta on Monday, Youth and Gender CAS Rachael Shebesh said the local administration and stakeholders had an obligation to make sure perpetrators are brought to book. "The emerging trends of FGM are worrying and can no longer be tolerated," the CAS said. "Female genital mutilation and any other form of gender-based violence can no longer be tolerated this time around. We must concentrate on empowering our girls by educating them. FGM must stop and the time is now," she said. Taita Taveta has a 22 per cent prevalence rate and is among Kenya's hotspot counties. During the Women Deliver 2019 conference in Canada, President Uhuru Kenyatta vowed to end FGM in Kenya by 2022. Prevalence of FGM ranges from 0.8 per cent in the West to over 97 per cent in Northeastern. Studies reveal that maternal deaths during childbirth are common among counties that practice FGM. According to the Kenya Health Demographics 2014 survey, Kenya has an FGM prevalence rate of 21 per cent, with seven out of 10 girls and eight out of 10 women cut by a traditional circumciser. The campaign group 28 Too Many says one in five Kenyan women between the ages of 15 and 49 has undergone FGM. Shebesh presented girls in the area with dignity kits to help sustain them during the Covid-19 period. The kit contains the basic items that women and girls need to protect themselves and maintain hygiene and dignity in the face of natural events or disasters. They may contain underwear, towels, sanitary products, laundry and bar soap and whistles. Youth advocate and anti-FGM activist Evah Naisimoi said since the practice is seen as an entry point into womanhood, many young girls immediately begin engaging in sexual relationships, the result of which is pregnancies and dropping out of school. "There is fear and stigma associated with family planning, which means that men don’t use condoms and the women are not even aware of any available options for them. Ignorance among young people concerning sexuality education also leads to increased risks of sexually transmitted infections and teen pregnancy," Naisimoi said. "Beside stigma and fear, some of the other barriers to girls and women accessing reproductive health services include retrogressive cultural beliefs and little or no access to formal knowledge and education." Edited by Henry Makori