Iron ore extraction at Kishushe, Taita Taveta county, is set to resume after months of closure. The county government on Saturday lifted the over three months ban on mining and accepted Samrudha Resources Kenya Limited’s request to extract the mineral. The company closed business in March in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. The County COVID-19 Emergency Response Team co-chaired by Governor Granton Samboja and county commissioner Rhodah Onyancha on March 26 suspended large scale mining operations within the county. Companies engaged in mining were encouraged to comply with strict protocols to enable them resume operations. In a statement to newsrooms, county director of communication Denis Onsarigo said the company had adhered to all set requirements. The company is expected to ensure close supervision and strict adherence to the laid down Covid-19 guidelines and directives issued by the County COVID-19 Emergency Response Team. Onsarigo said the company had established a screening point for its fleet immediately at the junction from the Mombasa-Nairobi highway for the purpose of ensuring that drivers adhere to the rules. Further, the company is required to dedicate 10 Covid-19 holding rooms and one isolation room furnished with beds, linen, mosquito nets and furniture. “It has also hired a medical nurse at the mining site and provided a fully furnished doctor’s room,” he said. Among other requirements were decongesting the staff dwelling places, procuring a functional thermo-gun for temperature check and providing adequate personal protective equipment for staffers. The company has further cut down its labour force and committed to only recruit from the surrounding villages to reduce the risk of importing Covid-19 cases as well as promoting social distancing at the extraction site. Dozens of workers who deepened on the company were rendered jobless following the closure of operations. Other mining companies awaiting government approval to resume operations include Universal Resources International Company that eyes extraction of manganese at Mbambarinyi in Mwatate subcounty. Edited by Henry Makori