Senators have pleaded with Speaker Kenneth Lusaka to give them ample time to debate the Revenue Sharing Formula. "We are anxious about the formula. We do not want five minutes or even three minutes. Today is an important day," Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo said on Tuesday. He was supported by Elgeyo Senator Kipchumba Murkomen who asked the speaker to make a just ruling. "When Senate is dealing with important issues, we need more time. We have always reduced ourselves to three, two minutes. Why don't we take reasonable time," he said. "...because some of this things are sensitive and need time. We should change this culture as a Senate and create enough time to explain ourselves." Narok Senator Ledama Olekina also weighed in, saying that they are willing to spend the night at the Senate. "I support the sentiments and request that today we focus on the debate and Kenyans are waiting to hear what we have to say even if it means spending the night here," he said. But Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei rejected this calls, saying that all matters are important. "What we are telling Kenyans is that there are some things that are more important. What we should do is to minimise the discussion. Let us stick to the rules, the formula will come and go," he said. President Uhuru Kenyatta received the backing of ODM chief Raila Odinga for a new county revenue-sharing formula after a stalemate that had threatened the handshake. However, Deputy President William Ruto urged Parliament to come up with what he termed a “win-win formula that is sensitive to proposals made without hurting any county”. The proposed revenue formula will hit hard the underdeveloped sparsely populated counties – the marginalised areas especially in North Eastern and at the Coast. Those are areas Ruto is eyeing for votes in 2022 presidential bid. And Raila’s vote base as well. It will benefit the more densely populated counties in Central region, Uhuru’s backyard where 10 counties will gain by about Sh300 million. They have been clamouring for more funds, saying it’s unfair to allocate more to lesser populated areas. It will also benefit Western and Rift Valley counties. The Star has established Uhuru personally reached out to Raila and Wiper boss Kalonzo Musyoka to support the proposed revenue-sharing formula. Raila supported a reduction of funding to his support base – but a gradual, less painful one. He also gains support in Mt Kenya.