ANC party boss Musalia Mudavadi should stop using Lugari MP Ayub Savula as his political point man in Kakamega county, nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi has said. Osotsi says Savula is the most dishonest person to be a political point man in politically complex county like Kakamega. He said Savula’s attacks on Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya are inconsequential and will cause more damage to the ANC party leader's political standing in Kakamega. "The best option for Mudavadi in this circumstance is to join hands with President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga," the ANC nominated lawmaker told the Star via phone on Friday morning. He said any other game plan will momentarily excite a few people and eventually crumble like in 2013. The lawmaker said the Kibra by-election was a litmus test that ANC should learn from. “Savula hasn’t denounced his links with Deputy President. I am also aware every time he makes those attacks he rushes to Cotu Secretary General Francis Atwoli to apologise clearly implying he does that for attention-seeking,”Osotsi said. Osotsi further accused Savula of being the mastermind behind the plot to de-register Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala from ANC for his own political millage. However the ANC deputy party leader Savula on a text SMS said,"Those are stupid issues." Osotsi’s remarks came after the Lugari MP challenged those who are opposing the ANC party boss to declare their preferred candidate instead of hiding behind the current Covid-19 pandemic. Osotsi urged Mudavadi not to listen to those telling him not to vie for the Presidency in 2022 just because he has a party and that a Luhya must be on the ballot. "We want to be part of a winning formation and will not support somebody just because he is on the ballot. Oparanya understands this better because we stood firm and focused even as some politicians shifted to the UDF in 2013," he said. Osotsi said Savula had no moral authority to oppose the commendable efforts of Oparanya and Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa to save the sugar industry that is currently on its knees. “Cane farming is the main economic activity of Kakamega and the larger Western region and those opposed to revival efforts by the government spearheaded by Uhuru are enemies of the people,” Osotsi said.