Workers well being is a top priority for most organisations, being rated the highest in importance across all trends, a recent capital trends report by Deloitte shows. “Organizations need to focus on the individual in work, not just the individual at work so as to help workers feel and perform their best, strengthening the tie between well-being and organisational outcomes,” the report notes. In the survey, 79 per cent of respondents said a sense of belonging is important for organisation's success. In Kenya most organisations have embraced technology and have addressed human capital and social concerns separate from their efforts around technology. However, the report notes that the two: humans and technology can ran on separate tracks even viewing technology and humanity as distinct domains fundamentally at odds. “In this year’s report, we challenge organisations to re-examine whether humanity and technology are truly in conflict and to consider how it is possible to resolve the seeming paradox of finding ways to remain distinctly human in a technology-driven world,” said, Deloitte East Africa Consulting Partner George Hapisu. Organisations are going beyond re-skilling to empower employees to continuously develop skills, investing in new tools to make micro and expert-led learning easier than ever and responding to the evolving workforce to ensure they are prepared in today’s changing world. According to Deloitte, re-skilling is a strategic dead-end and organisations should stop focusing on re-skilling and instead focus on building the inherent capabilities humans need to be resilient and adaptive. Economies are shifting from an age of production to an age of imagination, driven by creativity and unique human capabilities. “Beyond focusing on how to improve the way work is done today, organisations now need to first consider what work they should be doing tomorrow, putting work outcomes in a constant state of flux and work in a continuous state of re-imagination,” the report notes.