Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong on Thursday told an Anti-Corruption Court that he saved the county from spending in excess of Sh25 million in a solid waste management project. Ojaamong is facing abuse of office and corruption related charges. He is accused of unilaterally signing an MoU with Madam R Enterprises Ltd in a project for a solid waste management system without due regard for procedure, leading to loss of Sh8 million. He is charged alongside the firm and other county officials. On Thursday, he told magistrate Douglas Ogoti that Madam R was a donor that came in with a grant to assist in the establishment of a solid waste management system in Busia. He told the court that the Sh8 million was authorised by his cabinet after it had been properly budgeted for. He also said the money was not an improper benefit as alleged by the prosecution but their contribution. The county chief said had the county government alone undertaken the solid waste management project, they would have spent over Sh15 million and at least Sh10 million to undertake the feasibility study. “Instead of subjecting the county to spend Sh25 million, we used Sh8m. We saved the county the unnecessary expenses. Madam R enterprises came with her grant and we were duty bound to make our contribution.  This was authorised by the county executive committee and effected by the water department and not me,” he said. The court heard that Madam R inherited all the county's casual workers. She also employed extra staff to undertake the feasibility study. In a month, Madam R could spend Sh1.5 million on workers. Ojaamong said if indeed they defrauded the county, the Auditor General should have been able to pick such anomalies. He also lamented over the fact that to date, he does not know who his accuser is. “I'm fighting to defend myself against an imaginary accuser. They say the person who complained and money was defrauded is anonymous and that it was through a letter. Even that anonymous letter was not produced,” he said In the case, the governor is jointly charged with nine others of conspiring to commit an economic crime by engaging in a scheme to defraud the county. The county chief is accused of intentionally entering into the deal with the firm although he knew the study had not been budgeted for in 2013-14. He is said to have entered into the contract while in Berlin, Germany, on April 7, 2014. He is also accused of abuse of office by improperly conferring a benefit to the company. Edited by R.Wamochie