With the latest technology, cycling has evolved with apps and gadgets advanced to enable cyclists to have a better experience. A cycling enthusiast like me would want gadgets and applications that can help guide and tell the distance I have covered. Strava is one of the applications that take advantage of your phone or GPS watch sensors (for those with smart watches) to let you track your ride. This means it tracks from basics like speed and distance to more complex metrics such as cadence, power and heart rate. A special thing about this app is that it has a community feature since it is used all over the world with over 11 million workouts per week. Though it is a great way to find new rides, it is also perfect for those who need a little competition to keep their speed up. It has the Strava Summit option that gives you features like training plans, suffers codes and beacon. The training plans give you daily updates to reach your goals, suffer codes are based on heart rate to show you how you did against others in terms of effort, not just performance and beacon tracks you so you can share your live location with up to three people. S-Works Prevail II helmet is a cycling gadget with a crash detector and tracker. It is comfortable and has been equipped with Mindset Hairport II micro-dial fit system. You will hardly know you are wearing it when going for long rides. It features an EPS construction that relies on multi-density foam paired with a robotically woven skeleton for safety. It also has an aero design, which means that you should be able to save six seconds over 40 kilometers of riding compared to the standard road helmet. It has a feature called ANGi, which is a tracker, crash detector and safety beacon. ANGi stands for Angular and G-Force indicators. When you sync it with the specialized ride app, it will be able to detect a crash and will connect to your smartphone sounding an alarm with a countdown. Bragi Dash Pro is another gadget for cycling which is a wearable that lets you imagine you are riding like a pro with your coach on the radio via an earpiece guiding you every step of your ride. With the smart tracking and intelligent voice controls and feedback, these earbuds are like a wireless wonder workout guide. It gives you feedback on metrics like speed and heart rate through its inbuilt sensors and smartphone connectivity. Cyclists can be assured of safety on the road and they can enjoy riding with friends and family.