What may have informed Senate Majority Whip Irungu Kang’ata to say Jubilee will reconsider their support for the Building Bridges Initiative report? The talk in political circles is that BBI is a project of President Uhuru Kenyatta and it is he who should be rallying support. Those in the know say if Uhuru will not rein in the likes of Kang’ata, then the goodwill BBI enjoys will fizzle out. Of concern to the politicians is the brazen way Uhuru’s right hand man spoke about BBI yet opposition leaders have been quiet as the government makes outrageous appointments to senior positions. A deputy governor from Western is worried after a group of scribes bumped into him at a local restaurant with a former county employee. The deputy governor was with a senior official from a neighbouring county who also happened to be with his side chick, a junior employee at his office. It looked like a double date. The two officials panicked when they saw journalists, and the deputy governor ordered waiters to serve the scribes whatever they wanted. Perhaps to buy their silence? What will their wives say when they found out their husbands are dating women young enough to be their daughters? The transfer of a popular police officer from Pangani to a remote part of Kenya is causing a tug of war among senior officials. While some are determined to transfer the officer outside Nairobi, others feel he has done a good job ending insecurity in Pangani, Eastleigh, Mlango Kubwa, Mathare and Kayole. Last week, two senior officers were overheard having a heated argument about the policeman's transfer, ostensibly following the resurgence of crime in Eastleigh. The senior officer accused his boss of condoning crime and punishing diligent officers. Last week robbers were caught on camera shooting a person in broad daylight. The competition between Nairobi Metropolitan Services and the Nairobi County Government has gone a notch higher. In just one week, each side has come up with an advert listing its achievements, leaving Nairobians wondering who they really want to impress. On Friday, Governor Mike Sonko announced that the deed he signed handing over some functions to the national government is no longer tenable. So what really has informed the need for the adverts? Those in the know tell Corridors that each side is trying to justify why it should be the one running the city.