Members of the Maninagar Shree Swaminarayan Gadi community in Mombasa are mourning the death of the community’s spiritual leader. His Divine Holiness Acharya Shree Purushottampriyadasji Swamishree Maharaj, 78, was the head priest of the community and succumbed to Covid-19 on Thursday. The community is made up of wealthy businessmen in Mombasa, who control various sectors of the economy including transport, construction, shipping and hospitality. Maharaj used to visit Mombasa every year around November to congregate with members of the community. He always preached peace to his community members in the East African Community. The community spokesman in Mombasa, who did not want to be mentioned, said they will have a small service to honour the departed leader. “We are still planning. We are yet to make the final arrangement. We still have to observe the Covid rules you know,” said the spokesperson. Former Mombasa Mayor Ahmed Mohdhar, in his condolence message, described the spiritual leader as a dedicated man who promoted peace and tourism in Mombasa. “During the post-elections skirmishes he dedicated his time while in the country to pray for peace and harmony to prevail,” Mohdhar said. According to the Indian Express, a newspaper in India, the 78-year-old spiritual leader tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted at CIMS Hospital in Science City on June 28. “He was soon put on ventilator while he was also administered two doses of plasma therapy,” the Indian Express stated. His condition did not improve. Ten other priests, who were always by his side, also tested positive for the novel coronavirus and were admitted in various hospitals in Ahmedabad. The community head priest had not appointed his successor and so the temple trust on July 12 appointed Shree Jitendriya Priyadas Swami as his spiritual successor. Acharya Shree Purushottampriyadasji Swamishree Maharaj was cremated the same day his funeral was conducted, per Covid-19 protocols, with devotees paying their last respects on video, according to the Indian Express. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed grief over his demise. “Acharya Shree Purushottampriyadasji Swamishree Maharaj was blessed with immense wisdom. His emphasis on community service, education and women empowerment will always be remembered. I will never forget my many interactions with him. Om Shanti,” Modi tweeted.