A vaccine candidate that was rejected in Kenya could be made commercially available mid next year if trials elsewhere find it effective. The candidate, produced by the University of Oxford, was to be tested on doctors, nurses, clinical officers and mortuary attendants in Kilifi and Mombasa beginning May 31. But the recruitment of study participants in Kenya was suspended amid the furore over French scientists who suggested that Africa be used as a ‘testing lab’ for trials against Covid-19. The trial in Kenya was expected to start with Phase 1 then progress to Phase 2. Principal Investigator in Kenya Prof George Warimwe did not respond to queries if the trial will be restarted. However, the trial has progressed to phase 3 in the UK, Brazil and South Africa, with researchers saying it might be available next year. "If found to be safe and effective in generating protective immune responses, the ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 will be further developed for use in controlling Covid-19," says the description published by the Pan African Clinical Trials Registry. The candidate is called ChAdOx1 nCoV-19, or chimpanzee adenovirus vaccine. Prof Shabir Madhi from the University of Witwatersrand, who is leading the South African trial, says that early results could be seen by November or December. “A vaccine could be made commercial as early as the beginning of next year,” he told the China Global Television Network last week. British drugmaker AstraZeneca will manufacture millions of doses of this vaccine candidate in anticipation of it proving to be both safe and effective. Prof Madhi said governments must put in an upfront purchase order for the potential vaccine. Last month, AstraZeneca inked a deal to supply Europe with 400 million doses of the vaccine, with deliveries starting by the end of 2020. The World Health Organisation lists the candidate as one of the two in the final Phase III trial, the other being by China's Sinopharm. China's Sinovac Biotech is set to become the third later this month. In total, researchers around the world are developing more than 155 vaccines against the coronavirus and 21 are in Phase 1 and 2 of human trials. Vaccines typically require years of research and testing before reaching the clinic, but scientists are racing to produce a safe and effective vaccine by next year. The WHO data also discounts claims that Russia has successfully completed clinical trials of the world's first Covid-19 vaccine. The WHO indicates the Russian vaccine candidate as a Phase 1 trial, that still needs to undergo Phase 2 and Phase 3. The Russian candidate, developed by the country's Gamaleya Institute in Moscow, was tested for toxicity and found to be safe. "Around 14-15 August, I hope, the small amount of vaccine that we should be able to produce will enter public circulation," Alexander Ginsburg, the institute's director, was quoted as saying. This will be equivalent to a Phase 3 trial since people getting the vaccine will remain under supervision. According to the WHO, the earliest the world can expect any Covid-19 vaccine is mid-2021, but even that is not assured.  (edited by o. owino)