An accumulator, also known as an acca, is a single bet that consists of multiple selections. It allows choosing more outcomes while increasing your odds of winning. If all your selections win, then your bet is a success. Otherwise, you lose the bet. Accas are particularly popular in football and various betting sites offer various bet of the day tips to keep avid football bettors on their website. If you don’t want to just bet on one team and want to bet on other available selections too, these tips will help you win your acca. 1. It’s all about strategy. Every bettor has their strategy and approach to betting football accumulators so trying to find one effective general strategy would be difficult. However, there are basic rules that you can follow to give you a good understanding of how to go about building a strategy. First, you should only bet with a set amount of matches. If you decided on playing with three folds, then don’t add another match to that bet. Most of the time a bettor’s acca gets ruined after adding another match at the last minute. Next, decide on how much return you want on your stake. Determining that right from the start and following through will help you find the right matches. These two basic rules can help you come up with your approach. The important thing with your strategy is that it should be clear, feasible, and actionable. 2. Look for value bets and promotions Serious football bettors who are looking to make a profit should look for bookmakers with the best odds and promotions. For bettors, the most important aspect when betting is to get the most out of the bookmaker. To find great value odds, you should look for a bookmaker with the best prices available. Additionally, you should take advantage of bookmaker promotions to help you increase your chances of winning. The most popular strategy for accas is the acca insurance. Basically, the bookmaker refunds a part or all of your stake if one of your accumulator team fails to win. Knowing all of these value bets and promotions will help you maximize your games and increase your odds of winning. 3. Don’t be greedy. Whether you experience consecutive wins or losses, chances are you would want to play more. That’s not a good strategy as that will only leave you losing more than what you have. After all, it only takes one bad selection in your acca to lose everything. Additionally, some bettors make the mistake of combining all their predictions in one huge acca bet, so they can win the potential winnings of the day. When building your acca, it’s best to use only four to five folds at most. If you think there’s still more opportunities you can bet on for the day, then it’s best to build another accumulator rather than to add another match to a single accumulator. Keep in mind that it’s better to win than none at all. The best way to increase your chances of winning football accumulators is by being well-informed. Although betting firms are still temporarily suspended due to Covid-19, keeping yourself updated with the games and you’ll be sure to know which bets to place when the right time comes.