Most major churches in Nairobi will remain shut for in-person worship due to, among other reasons, the surging Covid-19 cases and restrictive guidelines. Some of those the Star talked to said they are exploring alternative means of social connectivity and fellowship. On the recommendation of the inter-faith committee he had formed, President Uhuru Kenyatta on July 6 allowed churches/mosques/temples to convene in-person congregations of 100 worshippers aged between 13 and 58 years for a maximum of one hour. The church leaders said the age cap was restrictive as it left those older than 58 and children below 13 out of spiritual nourishment. The JCC, led by Bishop Allan Kiuna, Nairobi Chapel, Citam, Parklands Baptist and Worship Tabernacle Church are among those to remain shut. Pastor Robert Gero of the Westlands-based Worship Tabernacle Church said the decision not to reopen is not motivated by fear but by "precaution and wisdom to avoid any spread of the virus among congregants during the worship service.” The other considerations were the individual churches' assessment of their facilities, membership numbers, likely mode of interactions, effectiveness of the one hour service and available alternative ways of corporate worship, he added. All Saints Cathedral Provost Sammy Wainaina, himself a Covid-19 survivor, last week informed members that they would not be gathering any time soon  to allow the church put in place adequate measures to protect them. “Following the presidential directive on phased reopening of places of worship, we would like to inform you that we will not reopen the cathedral in the next few weeks,” the July 11 communication stated. He said a task force had been formed to advise the cathedral on the safest mode of reopening to minimise exposure to the highly infectious virus. The provost said worship sessions would continue on YouTube and television channels. Christ is the Answer Ministries (CITAM) told its members to continue worshiping from home as leaders continue monitoring the Covid-19 situation. “We wish to inform you that after due consultation with the CITAM elders and the pastoral team, we are of the collective view that we should not reopen our assemblies immediately, this is especially in the interest of preserving lives in this period when the Covid-19 infections are rising sharply,” presiding Bishop David Oginde told members in a statement on Saturday. Parklands Baptist Church Senior Pastor Ambrose Nyangao told members that the 100 people per service limit “will not be sufficient for us, also recognising that a significant proportion of our church members consist of families with young children. “...we are therefore concerned that the wholesome family fellowship, which we greatly value, will be affected.” Pastor Gero said that while physical gatherings are deferred, church services can be followed on websites. Household level worship is also an effective alternative. “The various online platforms have offered some alternatives to most churches. Many others have continued to encourage the formation and strengthening of family, household or small groups fellowships in cases where social distancing can be adhered to. "These have had positive effect in most families and estates,” he said. The closure of places of worship was among Covid-19 containment measures announced by President Kenyatta on March 22. - mwaniki fm