Informal settlement dwellers in Nairobi will, after 100 days, be accessing health facilities in their neighbourhood. The Nairobi Metropolitan Services has pledged to build 19 dispensaries and rehabilitate five others in the slums, all at a cost of Sh2 billion. The health facilities are among the targets set for achievement in the next 100 days by NMS director-general Mohammed Badi. “In my next 100 days, I intend to build 24 fully functional hospitals in Nairobi’s informal settlements. Development comes at a cost and we must ensure we do not go back to where we came from," Badi said when he presented his first 100-day scorecard to President Uhuru Kenyatta a few weeks ago. NMS Health Services director Josephine Kibaru-Mbae said 19 health facilities will be built from the scratch while five will be rehabilitated. The facilities will be at Viwandani, Majengo, Mathare, Kayole, Soweto, Korogocho, Kawangware, Gitare Marigu, Mukuru kwa Njenga, Mukuru kwa Reuben, Kibera and Githurai 44. “Out of the 24 health facilities, 10 will be level 2 and the rest will be level 3,” Dr Kibaru-Mbae said. Level 2 health facilities are dispensaries run by clinical officers. They offer outpatient services, including VCT, pharmacy, laboratory and well-baby clinics. They also treat tuberculosis. Level 3 facilities are referred to as health centres and basically small hospitals run by at least one doctor, clinical officers and nurses. Their (curative) services include in-patient maternity with a ward, laboratory, dental, counselling, pharmacy. They also treat TB. The devolved unit had 76 public health facilities inclusive of health centres and dispensaries in 2014, according to a county government document of the same year. Mama Lucy, Mbagathi and Pumwani Maternity were and are the  main health providers. Kibaru-Mbae said the NMS’s healthcare vision for informal settlements is provision of comprehensive quality services just like in other parts of the country. “Most of the selected informal settlements don't have any health facilities, making it hard for the residents to get treatment. But the 24 health facilities will be a game-changer when they are completed,” she said. The NMS will contract the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority to supply drugs to the facilities. “Currently, Kemsa is supplying Levels 2 and 3 facilities with drugs under the UHC agreement. More drugs will be procured as required once the facilities are done,” Kibaru-Mbae said. She disclosed that there were plans to elevate Mama Lucy Hospital to a Level 5 health facility. Level 5 hospitals are referral hospitals with more than 100-bed capacity and run by chief executive officers who are doctors by profession. Badi has urged city residents to be patient as lots of good things will soon be available for them to enjoy.  - mwaniki fm