Police in Athi River have released more than 2,000 motorbikes that were impounded after boda boda operators were arrested for violating Covid-19 guidelines. The motorbikes were impounded for being used to transport passengers across the roadblock that had been erected along the Nairobi–Mombasa highway at Small World area in Athi River, Machakos county. The roadblock was removed following President Uhuru Kenyatta’s directive to partially open up the economy. Riders were intercepted while using panya routes to transport their clients from and into the Nairobi Metropolitan Area against the cessation of movement directive. The Star established that some motorbikes had been released earlier after their owners visited the station. The remaining motorbikes were released following Transport CAS Wavinya Ndeti’s intervention. Athi River deputy county commissioner David Juma said the riders  promised to comply with all relevant traffic rules and regulations including those set by the government on combating Covid-19. “Ndeti requested that the motorbikes be released to their owners after they learned their lessons the hard way for the four months they were impounded for contravening the guidelines," Juma said. "They included the motorbikes impounded after the operators were arrested while using 'panya' routes to transport their passengers outside and inside the Nairobi Metropolitan Area, those arrested while operating past the curfew hours and those found operating without wearing masks,” Juma told the Star at his office on Wednesday. Ndeti said the operators had assured them that they will adhere to the government’s regulations for combating Covid-19. “We must offer solutions to our youths so that they can continue chasing their dreams amid the scare of the Covid-19 pandemic,” Ndeti said. Juma said some operators were unable to earn their livelihoods normally after the motorbikes were impounded. He said the operators needed to meet some specific requirements for them to be handed over the motorcycles by the police. “Each person claiming that his or her motorbike was impounded during the four-month operation must produce a logbook to show ownership to avoid stealing people’s motorbikes,” Juma said. “They must also show driving licences for safety, two helmets for both the rider and passenger to avoid fatal injuries in case of accidents, reflector jackets and vow that they will not ferry people during curfew hours.” Edited by Henry Makori