Nairobi Stima chairman Johnstone Sakwa maintains that the team will not fold despite parting ways with their shirt sponsor Kenya Power Company and terminating the contracts of the playing unit. The National Super League outfit together with Coast Stima and Western Stima were rendered sponsor-less after the company terminated their deals last month citing low revenue returns. In a letter signed by Sakwa,Stima send home all their players opening room for speculations over their future. “This is to inform you that your contract with Nairobi Stima Welfare Club  is terminated from June 30, 2020 as per clause 2.1, which gives he club powers to terminate contract without notice or payment in lieu of notice when the club is dissolved as a result of withdrawal of sponsorship by sponsor,” the letter read in part. However, Sakwa is optimistic of a fresh start ahead of the new season despite facing an uphill task of constituting and running a new team. Sakwa, who doubles up as the NSL chairman, said they will seek to build a team which will successfully earn promotion to the top flight after coming close in the recent seasons. “The team was existing even before Kenya Power came on board. I believe we will pull through these murky waters and build a stronger team for the new season. Tough times don't last but tough people do. I have been with the team for more than a decade and I know we will survive and even make it to the top flight next season. I thank KPLC for their support for all those years,” he said Sakwa in the meantime expressed confidence of nailing down a new sponsor to fill in the void left by the parastatal. He disclosed that talks were underway with a host of unnamed corporates in a bid to breath life back into the club. At the same time, he cautioned other clubs against signing their immediate former players without approaching his office for negotiations. “I have been having discussions with a number of companies and hopefully, we will have another shirt sponsor. Those who want to sign our players must follow the laid down procedures although none has so far told me he wants to leave. Player welfare is an area I have a lot of interest in and I will ensure they are taken care of even with the latest development," he added.