It costs at least Sh71,000 daily to take care of a patient in the intensive care unit, the Health ministry has revealed. Acting Health director general Patrick Amoth said that 65 per cent of the cost goes to personal protective equipment and the rest to treat underlying conditions. Amoth said 199 patients have passed through ICU, out of whom 90 have been discharged, with 73 dying. “Comorbid conditions make the management more complicated because of the kind of presentations we get in Covid-19,” Amoth said. Challenges with the respiratory system require ventilatory support while bacterial infections in the respiratory tract complicate the management of the virus. “You find that the patients end up with multiple organ problems leading to multiple organ failure so when the lungs begin to fail in sympathy the kidneys also slows down, the heart slows down and you will be required to support all these organs. “For kidneys, you will be required to do hemodialysis to remove the toxins, for the heart you need to give them medicines for them to maintain good blood pressure for continued circulation. All these are very complicated procedures and processes which take a lot of time of healthcare workers.” Amoth said that a surge in numbers might make the situation worse and affect the patient healthcare worker ratios in the country. As of Tuesday, there were 36 people in ICU in various hospitals across the country. Eighteen are on mechanical ventilator support and another 18 on oxygen. “The condition is good because now we have locally generated data. Of course for doctors the more you manage a condition the more you get used to it and therefore you can put in place interventions that can make a total difference,” he noted. The ministry reported another high number of new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday after 497 cases were confirmed. The cases were from a sample of 4,922 tested in a day, bringing the total cumulative tests conducted so far to 221,234. Five more patients died raising fatalities to 202. New evidence is emerging from across the world that the disease is systemic and has effects on the heart, kidneys, blood clotting. Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi said that medics have seen a mixed picture of patients who have presented clotting issues. Some patients also seem to exhibit inflammation of the heart while others who have no comorbid condition could still experience cardiac problems. “We are seeing other presentations beyond the ventilator support and as we go about the diseases and try to manage the pandemic, and as new information becomes available, we will continue to manage the patients as best we can,” the CAS said. So far 450 healthcare workers have contracted the virus out of which 35 had underlying conditions. Amoth said 16 were hypertensive, six asthmatic, three diabetic, five living with HIV while the rest are managing other cases. Nairobi still leads in the number of new infections with 292 cases followed by Kiambu with 62, Kajiado with 51, Machakos with 30, Mombasa 28, and Busia 10. Uasin Gishu has eight, Nakuru five, Makueni three, Narok, Nyeri and Meru two cases each while Kakamega, Kericho, Kilifi, Laikipia and Nandi recorded one case each. As of Tuesday, Nairobi had recorded 5,705 cases followed by Mombasa with 1,739, Busia with 550 while Kiambu is fourth with 520 cases. Some 71 more patients were released from various hospitals after treatment, bringing the number of recoveries to 3,017.  (edited by o. owino)