More than 150,000 vulnerable people have been put under government support programmes to help them deal with the effects of Covid-19. The programmes include weekly cash transfers. Civil society groups, however, say more than 300,000 others who qualify for support have yet to be assisted because of limited resources, yet they cannot afford daily needs, especially food. “Many of the vulnerable people have been thrown out of rental houses, especially those living in urban areas in major towns in the region like Eldoret, Kitale and others," said Kipkorir Ngetich, a human rights crusader. He said the Covid-19 crisis has ruined many lives, hence the government's support programmes have been useful. “We urge the government to source additional support so more vulnerable people can be listed to benefit and be able to afford basic needs like food," Ngetich said. More than 13,000 most vulnerable people in Uasin Gishu are receiving the weekly cash stipend of Sh1,000 each to help them cope with economic challenges caused by the coronavirus outbreak. Uasin Gishu county commissioner Abdrisack Jaldesa said Sh13 million is disbursed every Tuesday to the beneficiaries through their M-Pesa accounts. He said the government had directed that additional 1,800 beneficiaries be enrolled and they are already identifying deserving cases. “The money goes directly to the beneficiaries and from our returns, we get the beneficiaries are happy because they are able to afford meals as they battle Covid-19, among other challenges,” Jaldesa said. Uasin Gishu Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno said the county will not allow landlords to frustrate residents who cannot afford to rent because of the coronavirus. “We have advised that the landlords negotiate with their tenants so that we all go through this difficult period without exposing vulnerable people to excessive suffering," Chemno said. Governors in the North Rift have also been receiving donations from well-wishers to support poor families hit hard by the effects of the pandemic. “We have done our best to back up the government efforts in ensuring our people do not suffer or die from lack of food or shelter," Nandi Governor Stephen Sang said. Sang said the cash stipends from the national government should be extended to benefit more vulnerable families. In Trans Nzoia, more than 14,000 are on the weekly cash programme, while in Turkana, more than 18,000 are benefitting. In Elgeyo Marakwet, more than 10,000 were listed. At the same time, the National Council for Persons With Disabilities has so far disbursed Sh400 million to help vulnerable people living with disabilities. Leonard Wafula from the council said they had cumulatively received Sh500 million allocated by President Uhuru Kenyatta to support people living with disabilities and the money is being distributed countrywide. Recipients in each county have to be the most vulnerable. Edited by F'Orieny