Two deaths, two miscarriages and two chopped limbs in the last three months have led to residents of Utange in Kisauni sub-county to protest over the poor road network in their area. The residents blame the poor state of the Bamburi Mwisho-Utange road for the tragic incidents in the area saying a group of thugs have been taking advantage of the curfew to attack their victims knowing help will not be forthcoming. “Those who come home past curfew hours were the targets. They waylay people here at Palestina because motorists and boda boda riders have to slow down because of the road,” Charo Juma said on Tuesday morning. The road, according to the residents, has been neglected for long. “For two years, we have had to put up with this poor state. They only come to pour murram when we protest. The murram lasts for only about a month before it is washed away when it rains,” said  Juma. Somoe Ali, a resident, said she has had to help two women who had miscarriages while using the road because of the bumpy nature. “I know of two women who had miscarriages. One was in a tuktuk while the other was on a boda boda. The one on a boda boda fell when the rider was overwhelmed by the state of the road and lost control,” said Somoe. She said she also almost broke her neck after also fell with a boda boda about three weeks ago. Chengo Saro, the Palestina Stage Boda Boda chairman, said the road has made them incur huge losses due to frequent breakdown of their motorcycles. “We lose business because some of our clients fear using boda bodas because, honestly, we usually fall down with them,” said Saro. The residents blamed Kisauni MP Ali Mbogo for the poor state of the road saying he has not been pushing the government to repair the road. Muslims for Human Rights rapid response officer Francis Auma said the residents have a right to proper roads because they pay a lot of taxes. Auma, who took part in the Tuesday morning protests, said political leaders have been using the road to earn votes. “They promise heaven and deliver hell. This is a road that is used by a deputy governor every day because he lives in Utange,” said Auma. However, MP Mbogo linked the protests to a political witch-hunt against him. He said the dilapidated section of the road is a three-kilometre stretch which he acknowledges has been in bad shape for quite a while. “The road is being worked on although the progress is slow,” said Mbogo. He said the contract for the major rehabilitation of the whole 15-kilometre road from Serena in Shanzu to Jocham Hospital in Kisauni was awarded two years ago. "The last time a routine maintenance on the road was done before I became MP during the late Karisa Maitha’s reign as MP before 2004," Mbogo claimed. “Works from Serana to Hassan Joho Girls Secondary School and that from Jocham Hospital to Bamburi Mwisho is complete. We did a complete re-carpeting. It is only that stretch that remains.” The works included re-carpeting of the road, doing a proper drainage system and putting up street lights. He said the works stopped because the contractor had not been paid the about Sh270 million owed to him by the national government. “He raised the first certificate after some of the works but was not paid and he had to use his own money. He raised two more certificates but was not paid and that is when he stopped,” said Mbogo. However, Mbogo said has been pushing the national government for the last two weeks to pay the contractor and the government finally paid him Sh49.8 million. “The contractor has assured me that he has received that amount and that he will be on site on Wednesday to continue with the works,” said the MP. He said the whole stretch will be re-carpeted. “We will not be patching up. We will be redoing the whole stretch. I use the road myself and I understand the pain of the residents. But I ask for patience from them,” said Mbogo. He hit out at Muhuri saying they are selective in their work. He questioned the concentration on Kisauni when there are many roads in Mombasa that are impassable today. “In Mvita, Likoni, Jomvu, there are roads that are worse than this stretch. Why the interest in Kisauni alone? We know what is going on. It is because I have an eye on the governor’s seat,” said the first time MP. “The three-kilometre stretch is painful, yes. But they should also acknowledge the 12 kilometre we have done on that road. These human rights groups should be sincere and do a fair job."