A Chinese company must pay Sh1 million to the family of a 13-year-old girl who died when she fell into a water-filled hole the firm had left open and unguarded. Nyahururu High Court judge Roselyne Wendoh upheld the earlier award by a chief magistrates’ court saying it was not excessive. She dismissed the appeal by the China National Aero-Technology International Engineering Corporation, a state-owned construction firm. “I find the appellant (Chinese company) has not demonstrated the award was inordinately high as alleged nor did the court apply the wrong principles in making the award. I find no merit in the appeal. “I hereby dismiss it with costs to the respondent,” judge Wendoh ruled on June 30. According to suit papers, the 13-year-old girl identified only as SL slipped and fell into a hole left open and unsupervised by the company, leading to her death. The hole was filled with water and was said to have been negligently and recklessly left open and was unattended or secured by the company. The girl was said to be a bright student, healthy and not suffering from any ailments that might have reduced her life expectancy. The chief magistrate’s court in Nyahururu said liability was 70:30, with the company paying 70 per cent. The magistrate awarded Sh1 million, however, the Chinese company challenged the award as being too high. It questioned the legal principles applied in assessing damages and whether the damages were so high as to be an erroneous estimate. It wanted the award reduced to Sh800,000 or less. The Chinese company said there was no justification for awarding Sh30,000 for pain and suffering when death was instantaneous. The award of Sh100,000 for loss of expectation to life was also exaggerated, the company said. The appeal was opposed on grounds the company did not demonstrate the court failed to consider relevant factors or considered irrelevant factors. No authorities were cited to support its arguments. Judge Wendoh said damages for death are payable irrespective of age and in Kenya children are expected to grow and provide for or assist their parents. The judge held, “The appellant’s submission that there was no proof of dependents and dependency cannot hold.” She further said the family was entitled to an award for the pain the minor suffered before death. “In this case, the respondent (minor) suddenly fell into the hole filled with water.  I believe she died instantaneously but even then, she suffered pain before death. I would find that Sh30,000 is not excessive in the circumstances.”  (Edited by V. Graham) 