Sixty-nine ECDE centres that stalled two years ago in Nandi after Sh200 million construction materials were stolen will be completed in the next three months, Governor Stephen Sang has said. The work will cost about Sh150 million. Sang on Saturday said works had resumed in all the wards in the county. Only three ECDE centres had been completed before the materials were stolen. Several county officers have since been taken to court over the theft. Education executive Grace Sugut said the county had streamlined operations in the department. “We have rectified all the challenges we had and in two or three months, we will have all the ECDs completed, so they can be used when learning resumes,” she said. She denied claims of continued graft in her docket. The stalled ECDEs have been one of the black spots in the administration of Governor Sang since he took over, but the county chief said the ECDE centres were unique and would be completed. “Unlike other counties which have been putting up only classes, we are putting up modern ECDE centres complete with staff rooms and other facilities,” Sang said. A row has been brewing in the county, leading to the resignation of assembly education committee chairman Emmanuel Rono last week. Rono cited continued graft in the county's education department, including loss of construction material for the ECDE centres. Rono said in the Sh7.3 billion county budget for 2020-21, the county did not allocate money for the ECDEs despite an outcry over the stalled projects. “I don’t want to be part of the rot in the department. My efforts to streamline the department have been frustrated by the governor and his team and I would rather quit than wait to be blamed by the public that I was part of the rot,” he said. Rono, who spoke to journalists in Kapsabet town, did not, however, mention the same reasons in his resignation letter to the assembly clerk. “Kindly accept this letter as my formal resignation as the chairperson for the committee on education and vocational training. I thank committee members for the support they accorded me during the time I served,” Rono said in his letter dated July 2, 2020. Rono last year led the committee to probe the loss of construction materials and money at the Education Department, after which the team recommended the sacking of eight senior officials. Governor Sang instead formed a task force to probe the loss but in the end, he only transferred some officials, ignoring recommendations of the assembly. Edited by A.N