Interior CS Fred Matiangi now says he has invited the DCI to establish the romours of his admission. Matiangi in an interview on Friday said the claims of his hospitalisation had subjected him and his family to a lot of distress, forcing him to switch off his phone. He said as a result he has filed a formal complaint with the National Police Service to establish the source of the rumours. “I have told the DCI and the Inspector General of Police and they are trying to investigate. We hope that we shall get to the bottom of the situation,” he said. The CS added, “I feel for my family. My innocent wife and children who have their own lives to live but they have to endure this kind of rumours. They are private citizens who have to pay a heavy price because one of them is in public service”. Matiangi said he cannot pretend that he can’t get the infection but on the other hand, there is nothing strange with CSs getting sick. “I find this funny because the perception appears to be that once we get into public office we can’t get sick. It is not true. I am not made of metal, so are my colleagues. We are human beings who get sick all the time because we are not heavenly. We go to hospital all the time,” Matiangi said. He said he is well aware that Corona is here and has been tested three times because of the level of exposure through interactions. “If I was sick of COVID-19 I will be the first to go public with it because there is nothing to hide,” he said. Matiangi’s sentiments come after government spokesman Cyrus Oguna admitted to have contracted the disease. Although Oguna had previously dismissed reports that he had contracted the disease, he said he got infected on an assignment outside the town. "Recently having come from an assignment out of town, I developed mild coronavirus symptoms and got tested." "The results came back positive for coronavirus and I am now receiving medical care and responding well to treatment at an isolation and treatment facility." Oguna said contact tracing is ongoing, adding that his family is fine.