A new study outlines the path Kenya must follow to prevent mass deaths from Covid-19. The study suggests that if the peak of Covid-19 infections occurs by September this year, the country will not have the capacity to prevent a catastrophe. The country will need an additional 1,511 intensive care unit beds and 1,609 new ventilators to save lives. The study, by a team from the Kenya Medical Research Institute-Wellcome Trust, was done mid this year when Kenya had only 537 ICU beds and 256 ventilators. Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya on Thursday said county health facilities now have 447 ICU beds and 437 ventilators. The Kemri researchers say Kenyans will reap huge benefits by strictly observing public health guidelines to flatten the infection curve. They predict that at the peak, about two per cent of the Kenyan population will be infected with the coronavirus and develop symptoms. The researchers assessed the country's capacity to offer hospitalisation and critical care if these symptomatic infections occur within six months since March, compared to when the same number of symptomatic infections are spread out over 12 or 18 months. "We find that the country lacks surge capacity for ICU beds and ventilators," they say in the study published on Monday by Plos One journal. The paper is co-authored by Dr Edwine Barasa, the director of the Kemri-Wellcome Trust Nairobi programme, and the Trust's researchers Paul Ouma and Emelda Okiro. The study shows that if Kenya flattens the transmission curve to 12 months, the country will only need about 650 additional ICU beds and 748 ventilators. If all symptomatic cases are spread over 18 months until late 2021, Kenya will only need an additional 374 ICU beds and an additional 472 ventilators. The researchers say that under a six-month transmission curve, 39 per cent of all general hospital beds countrywide will be occupied by Covid-19 patients. The situation will be chaotic in some counties. The Covid-19 general bed occupancy would vary from 12 per cent in  Tharaka Nithi county to 145 per cent in Trans Nzoia county. However, if the pandemic is spread over 12 months, only 19 per cent of general beds will be occupied by Covid-19 patients, and 13 per cent if infection surge is spread over 18 months. "The capacity of Kenyan hospitals to absorb increases in caseload due to Covid-19 is constrained by the availability of oxygen, with only 58 per cent of hospital beds with oxygen supply," the authors added. Kenya has 64,181 total general hospital beds, according to the Ministry of Health, but this figure is dynamic because counties are putting up additional beds. The researchers urge the government to stabilise oxygen availability in hospitals before investing in costly ICU beds and ventilators. They said only 16 per cent of healthcare facilities in Kenya have pulse oximeters, a vital device for monitoring oxygen saturation and therapy. Other items needed for emergency breathing interventions are only available in 13 per cent of facilities.  They include micro-nebuliser, beclomethasone and salbutamol inhalers, oxygen with tubing, flowmeter, and humidifier, resuscitation bags, intubation devices with a connecting tube, chest tubes with insertion sets, and CPAP equipment. "It may be more pragmatic for Kenya to first invest in making existing hospital beds functional by providing oxygen and procuring and making these devices available before focusing on ICU beds and ventilators," the study says. Edited by A.N