Formulas, in and of themselves, do not solve development problems. The issue is where resources are allocated once they have been made available; what use funds are put to once shared through the formula. What have the counties put the money they have received so far into? Every county has received fair amounts – in billions - since devolution kicked in. We came up with a formula because we appreciated that different counties were starting from different levels. There were those that had big land area; higher population; higher poverty levels and so on. But there were certain minimal things every county was going to do regardless of their population, like, say, put up a government in place. That is why it was agreed there be an equal share to take care of the services. Because certain counties had bigger municipalities and higher populations, especially urban and peri-urban areas, the equal share became a very small amount to meet their administrative costs. Those that had fewer administrative staff such as Lamu, Mandera, Turkana had more money than they could absorb. This is why the current formula has pushed the basic minimum share to a smaller percentage. Population and land are proxy measures of need. The assumption is that if you have big land, the cost of providing services is higher and vice versa. Land size however doesn’t consider topology – highlands, middle-level, and lowlands. On population, it is assumed if you have more people the cost of services is higher. The International Budget Partnerships submitted its views on the formula to the Senate and Commission for Revenue Allocation. The argument was that because we have the census and the household survey data; can we move to direct measures of need? There is a reason the proposed formula, for instance, has a parameter for health, agriculture, and urbanisation. This doesn’t invalidate population and land size. As we move on, we should get to a point where finance follows functions, which is only possible by knowing the cost versus demand for those functions. Politics of losing and gaining, however, messes up issues. With devolution every region has gained something. If anything, the big cities have lost much. At the core of it we should be asking, what development trajectory do we want to take as a country? The International Budget Partnership country manager spoke to the Star