Many churches and mosques in Mombasa are yet to reopen, having not met all the requirements for reopening. The government issued strict guidelines to be followed for reopening, including having a 100-person limit for a strict one-hour service. Muslim faithful in Bamburi and Bakarani areas of Nyali and Kisauni subcounties were disappointed to find Masjids Abidin in Bamburi and Masjid Marhaba in Bakarani still closed Friday and Saturday. Jesus Celebration Centre worshippers had to make do with online services after their lead pastor Wilfred Lai last Sunday issued a statement saying they would not be reopening because of the one-hour time limit, which he said is too short. Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries did not open their church next to the Nyali Bridge, with worshippers sticking to their online services. Minister Christine Otieno told the Star they have not reopened the church because the one-hour service is impractical for them. “Praise and worship only takes 45 minutes,” Otieno explained. She said unless the government increases the time for the service, they will not reopen lest they are tempted into disobeying the government, which goes against the Bible. “Romans 13:1 says we should obey the government’s law for they are put there by God. If we open with the existing protocols we will have to break the law which we do not want. We will be forced to go beyond the one-hour allowed,” she said. Salim Nasor said he went to Masjid Abidin twice on Friday and thrice on Saturday but it was closed. At Masjid Marhaba, Omar Athman said they were turned away when they showed up for prayers on Friday and Saturday. “I was told to go home because the mosque was yet to comply with most of the requirements. We still pray at home,” Athman said. The mosque’s muezzin Ali Mgedhem Salim told the Star the mosque’s management committee was to meet Sunday afternoon to discuss the way forward. “We have a meeting today so we can make a decision. The chairman will be telling us what to do,” Mgedhem said. He said most of the worshippers do not want to adhere to the 100-person limit and have expressed unwillingness to observe social distancing. “We do not want to risk,” Mgedhem said. However, those that opened on Friday and Sunday had a rough time controlling the number of worshippers allowed in. Masjid Musa in Mombasa’s Majengo area was among the few mosques that have reopened in the Coastal city after months of closure occasioned by the coronavirus pandemic. The mosque’s committee members said they had complied with the rules put in place by the government and ensured faithful maintained social distancing, washed their hands with soap and wore face masks among other regulations. “Those under the age of 13 and above 58 are not allowed in. There are some who showed up but we had to turn them away,” Ustadh Khalfan Keah, who leads the committee, said. Thermal guns were on hand to check the temperatures of those who walked into the mosque. It was a first-come first-serve basis. “We had a rough time controlling people here because they are eager to pray in the mosque after almost three months of not being able to,” said the Ustadh. At the ACK Mombasa Cathedral only 100 people were allowed into the church for every service. There were four services, with the 2pm service added to accommodate those who missed out on the other services. Before entering the church compound, faithful had to register their names while also giving their mobile phone numbers and age. Seats were clearly marked and spaced. There were no song books or Bibles provided as usual. Worshipers had to come with theirs. The church choir had to be scaled down per service to allow as many different people to get in as possible. Before the Holy Communion was taken, worshipers had to walk out to wash their hands first. For offerings, there was no basket going round as usual. Worshipers had to move to the pulpit to drop their offerings. A doctor was gave a talk on Covid-19 at the end of the services. However, worshipers complained about the one-hour time limit saying it was too short. “Well, it was not satisfactory. One hour is too short. It cannot happen. You leave the church feeling something is still amiss,” member Wiston Otum said.