@ppcheti The government has started marketing the Lapsset project as a platform for enhancing regional and economic integration. The development follows the recent completion of the first three berths at the project site in Kililana area in Lamu west. On Monday, Foreign Affairs PS Macharia Kamau said Lapsset was an integral project for the region as it will boost Africa’s economic integration through infrastructure development and trade. Macharia said when he toured the port that the government was focusing more on marketing the port to foreign markets to achieve its objectives. The Lamu Port Corridor Development Authority-LCDA said the first three berths cost Sh48 billion. The first berth was completed in August last year while the other two were completed last month. The three berths are 1.2 kilometres in length and have a depth of 17.5 meters. “Through such infrastructure development, new enormous markets will be established which will, in turn, grow intra-African trade that is currently at a low rate,” Kamau said. LCDA director general Sylvestre Kasuku said massive private sector interests have been registered to develop and operate the additional 29 berths. Of much interest is also the new Lamu Port Industrial City which will make Lapsset an ideal harbour for exporting locally manufactured goods. Kasuku said they were looking forward to the support from various partners, including the African Union to ensure the port is a success. Since completion of the first berth in August 2019, various famous shipping lines have sought stake at the Lamu Port, a major boost. “It's impressive that the world’s renowned shipping lines have visited and shown interest in the port even before the berths are commissioned. It shows they are impressed by our level of preparedness and are willing to do business with us and that’s a plus for us,” Kasuku said. The Lamu Port will be the largest deep sea port, with the highest trans-shipment capability in the East Coast of Africa. It will cater to the Ethiopian market, currently served by the Djibouti port and South Sudan, which relies on Port Sudan. The port is also anticipated to open up the northern part of the country and contribute at least 1.5 per cent of the country's gross domestic product. 