Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru on Thursday said Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho is to blame for the current county impasse that has crippled service delivery. Waiguru in an open letter to the PS said it has become clear that despite their numerous conversations and messages through various people in which the PS has indicated that he was not and would not engage in fanning political hostility in the county, he remains the "primary catalyst in the destructive politics that have become the new brand of the County". The governor said her administration is aware of other interested parties and those of opposing political camps that support the MCAs, but said Kibicho is the primary catalyst. Waiguru in the letter posted on her Facebook page, said she learnt her  impeachment was carried out with Kibicho's "tacit support". "It is on record that during the impeachment process, you variously went round the County with the Assembly members pushing the impeachment leaving no doubt as to what your political desires were," she said. She added, "Accounts from various sources indicate that you gave your unqualified support to the impeachment, well knowing that the motion had no substance and no factual basis and would only lead to besmirching my character and poisoning the political environment in the County. Anyway, that is water under the bridge". Kibicho has previously denied sabotaging Waiguru or being behind her woes. Waiguru alleged that since the failure of the impeachment, the PS continues to support a scheme to destabilise the County. Waiguru said the reason she opted to write the letter to the PS was put it on record that the county is aware of his machinations that are destroying the County. As for the BBI mandate, Waiguru said she is not aware that there is a “regional leadership”. According to her, any engagement in the process has been organic and the BBI movement needs no political jostling. "I would hope that we all support His Excellency the President in achieving his legacy desire from the Handshake without the need for political squabbling," she said. "I plead with you to kindly reconsider your focus and join me and other leaders in ensuring that Kirinyaga reaches its potential. We owe it to the people on whose behalf we have been given the privilege of leadership," the letter read. Waiguru and Kibicho have been at crossroads over various issues within the county. In February this year, Waiguru told Kibicho to either resign and join politics or concentrate on matters of internal security. This came after Kibicho accused Waiguru of trying to sabotage the Sh15 billion proposed Kenya Medical Research Institute project in Mwea constituency. But Waiguru accused Kibicho of engaging in politics instead of concentrating on his duties of providing security. “If PS Karanja Kibicho wants to engage in village politics and insults, he should resign and join others in early campaigning,” Waiguru said in a statement.