The government is planning to renovate public schools in Voi in preparation for the reopening in January, area MP Jones Mlolwa has said. Mlolwa said most of the schools built in the 70s are in bad shape and will require proper rehabilitation before classes resume. The project will be funded by the National Government Constituency Development Fund. “Most of our public schools are now in bad shape and we have allocated money for face-lifting. A good learning environment is key to the improvement of education Standards,” Mlolwa said. The legislator said schools will also require extra classrooms to accommodate all learners once classes resume in line with the government’s protocol to control the spread of Covid-19. Some of the government’s guidelines to schools before reopening are the renovation of buildings and installation of appropriate hygiene facilities such as toilets and bathrooms to ease congestion. In the raft of measures by the Ministry of Education, learning institutions will be required to build more toilets and bathrooms to ensure that more than 25 students do not use a single toilet. He said education stakeholders are still in dilemma on how to handle the large population of learners with limited infrastructure and human resources in schools. He advised the Ministry of Education not to rush into reopening of schools but instead ensure all protocols are adhered to. “All safety measures against the coronavirus virus must be put in place before a decision to reopen schools is made. The government must ensure social distancing rule in schools is attainable and ensure enough supply of water for students,” the MP said. On Monday, President Uhuru Kenyatta during his tenth national address on the coronavirus pandemic directed Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha to convene a meeting with officials and give further communication on the reopening of schools. Earlier this month, Magoha announced that primary and secondary schools will resume next year in January with a phased reopening of colleges and universities. Edited by R.Wamochie