Local pros are set to get back to their daily grind ahead of the rescheduled dates for the Magical Kenya Open Golf Championship. The momentum for locals had eased quite a bit owing to the outbreak of Covid-19 which culminated in the postponement of the event in March. But Kenya Open Golf Limited and the European Tour have announced the Magical Kenya Open will take place from November 12-15 at Karen Country Club. The tournament was initially due to be played from March 12-15 at the same venue but was postponed following the Government of Kenya directives to prevent the spread of the deadly virus. Windsor pro Rizwan Charania was elated to learn about the new dates and said: “That’s a very positive move. I guess given the current situation, I’m hoping we will be able to play some competitive golf in run up to the Kenya Open. It will also motivate more golfers to up their game well in time.” Golf Park Pro Eric Ooko, who is among Kenyan qualifiers from Safari Tour, said it’s too early to celebrate with the current situation in the country. He, however, expressed optimism that the new dates would be appropriate. “I am very happy that the Kenya Open has secured its place and new dates before the end of the year. It would be nice to see top Tour players back—but it’s still early days,” said Ooko. The new Tour dates follows President Uhuru Kenyatta’s last week’s announcement to resume all international flights from August 1. The resumption of international flights in the county is bound to boost the logistical facet of the event which attracts quite a big chunk of participants from Europe, Africa and Asia. Kenya Open Golf Limited chairman, Peter Kanyago, said the move was as a result of the special relationship the event continues to enjoy with the European Tour and the zeal of growing the game in Kenya and the region. “The Kenya Open has been connected with the European Tour since the mid-1970s. We held the first designated full European Tour title event last year and we were all happy with the success. We would like to keep the momentum going by hosting the second European Tour event this year,” said Peter Kanyago. “Being a European Tour event, the Magical Kenya Open will be televised live all over the world just like it was last year. This will give the Kenyan tourism industry the impetus it requires to start rebuilding after the devastation caused by the global pandemic,” added Kanyago. The prize purse for the rescheduled Magical Kenya Open 2020 will be €1,000,000 with a field of 144 players. Out of the total, 12 will be from the 2019-2020 Safari Tour as well as six amateur golfers selected by the Kenya Golf Union.