The Independent Police Oversight Authority has completed investigations into complaints against controversial crimebuster Rashid Ahmed but the DPP is stalling. Ipoa boss Anne Makori told the Star the authority had probed numerous complaints against Rashid lodged by wananchi but the files have stalled at the Noordin Haji-led Directorate of Public Prosecution. “… the Authority has in the past conducted investigations into alleged misconduct by the officer and submitted its investigation file for independent review by the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions,” she told the Star. The law empowers the ODPP to evaluate investigation files forwarded to it and allow prosecution or decline and return the file for further work. Reached for comment, DPP Haji confirmed he had received the file but denied sitting on it, saying he had reverted it to the authority to fill gaps in the investigations and has not heard back from them. "The file was dispatched on June 24 to IPOA with various areas to cover which the have not," he told the Star. The officer, based at Pangani police station, has been a subject of numerous activist agitations and media reports. Critics allege he is responsible for harassing, brutalising and gunning down youths suspected to be violent thugs in the informal settlements, especially Mathare, Dandora and their neighbourhoods. Last week, he is alleged to have stormed into Mathare Social Justice Centre, demanding to see a victim of brutality, whose injuries are imputed to him. Makori said the police watchdog was aware of the incident and had initiated investigations. “The complaint will be exposed to the normal processing mechanisms and appropriate recommendations made on conclusion of investigations,” she said. Social Justice Centre Working Group co-convener Wilfred Olal, who is also the head of Dandora Social Justice Centre, told the Star the revelation by Ipoa was shocking "as the officer has numerous cases lodged against him and the DPP has always promised action". "The officer has 33 cases of killings filed at Ipoa against him. This is truly shocking. It's a matter we will definitely follow up," he said. Makori said they have received 90 complaints against police officers since March 27 when heightened security measures were put in place to combat the spread of Covid-19, especially with regard to the night curfew. “The complaints include deaths, shootings, harassment, assaults resulting to serious injuries, robbery, inhuman treatment and sexual assault,” she said. “After preliminary investigations, 22 deaths and 42 incidents where victims sustained injuries have directly been linked to actions of police officers during the curfew enforcement. All cases are at different stages of investigations.” Makori said that as of December last year, Ipoa had forwarded 220 investigation files to the DPP for review and had 75 cases at various stages before courts. "A further 2,269 cases were under active investigations with a further 1,480 under initial investigation assessment. To date, 2,815 investigations have been completed, with various recommendations made, including internal disciplinary action and criminal prosecution," she said. "Some of these will end up in convictions." Some 830 complaints, however, were resolved through alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, including the inspection and monitoring of police premises such as detention facilities and police operations, besides mediations between complainants and police stations for minor complaints.