Teachers will offer service lessons to learners under an arrangement similar to the Nyumba Kumi framework, Education CS George Magoha has announced. Addressing the media on Thursday at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development, Magoha said multi-agency teams will map out the country to ensure teachers offer community service lessons. "The teachers will teach values to learners under the Nyumba Kumi framework. TSC to issue guidelines on the new plan that will come at no cost to parents," he said. At the basic education, the stakeholders observed that even though the ministry continues to provide remote learning through radio, television and online programmes, there are some children who are unable to access these programmes. The Ministry of Education and TSC, using a multi-agency approach, and in collaboration with chiefs and the Nyumba Kumi initiative, will implement a community-based learning approach where teachers will be mapped with learners to offer learning at no cost. The Nyumba Kumi (10 households concept) was introduced by a presidential order gazetted in 2013, largely to anchor community policing at the household level, Nyumba Kumi aims at safe and sustainable neighbourhoods. Magoha further noted that most colleges and universities were not ready for reopening. "They will remain closed till January 2021," he said adding that the ministry will continue inspecting institutions to ensure they are ready for reopening in January 2021. "Universities should continue offering online programmes, including examinations and graduations." He noted that the government has set aside funds to pay salaries to Board of Government teachers, security staff and settle utilities. During his 10th national address on the coronavirus pandemic on Monday, the president directed Magoha to call for a meeting with all education officials to discuss reopening dates. Uhuru said any government institution, including all sporting facilities, stadia and educational institutions, upon designation by the Health CS as a public health facility, shall be availed to the ministry for isolation and quarantine purposes. CS Magoha had previously announced that schools will resume in 2021.