The Directorate of Criminal Investigations wants fingerprints made mandatory to identify persons presenting themselves as land vendors to weed out fraud The DCI says that apart from photographs of  vendors and purchasers, fingerprints will provide positive identification and should be attached to documents. The police want MPs to amend the Land Registration Act, 2012 to give the Chief Land Registrar absolute powers in making decisions over transactions. DCI boss George Kinoti said this would allow the registrar to cancel any fraudulently or illegally obtained title deed and to restore the records. He said fraudsters have been having taking advantage of  "the long and overtaxing court process" to perpetrate their crimes. The detective revealed they are probing cases where "fraudsters manipulate records at the Registrar of Companies  to effect changes in the directorship of companies." Kinoti told the National Assembly Security committee that the fraudsters then use that information to obtain CR12 forms and forge title deeds in the names of the same companies. While assuring MPs that they are handling the cases, the DCI wants the law tightened so that no one is deprived of their land by criminals. Apart from vendors and purchasers' photographs, police want fingerprints to be made part of the instruments attached to transfer forms. Kinoti recently told the committee chaired by Kiambaa MP Paul Koinange this will help stamp out fraud at the land registries. “The fingerprints should be appended on the stated forms to provide conclusive proof that such persons are conclusively identified,” Kinoti told MPs. The police also want controls put in place so that land registries are only accessible to the custodians of the files and records. DCI further wants MPs to pass a law for periodic vetting of land registries’ personnel to “weed out officers who lack integrity.” Kinoti said more than 70 per cent of land fraud cases follow collusion and connivance of the fraudsters and “corrupt and dishonest” registry personnel. The police also asked MPs to tighten the law to provide for stiffer penalties for persons who commit land fraud. MP Koinange said it was regrettable that some assistant chiefs, chiefs, assistant county commissioners and deputy county commissioners as well as Lands and county officials aid land fraud. He said whereas victims spend fortunes in court to recover their parcels, nothing much happens to the government officers who facilitate the fraud. “Going forward, we recommend to the DCI that any government officer involved in aiding land fraud must immediately be interdicted and criminal charges preferred against them,” Koinange said. “As a country, we must return the sanctity of the title deed.” The DCI further wants all documents in the registries digitised and backed up in physical files for verification. Also of concern is rampant theft of green cards where genuine documents are fraudulently replaced with fake documents or are altered by introducing the wrong details of ownership. “Officers manning registries should be gazetted to hold them responsible in case of loss or manipulation of land files,” Kinoti told MPs. “Proper movement of files should be maintained to avoid parallel issuance of fraudulent titles,” the DCI said, adding that land cases are best concluded in two years. Kinoti said a DCI liaison office is manned by detectives at Ardhi House. “This office has served as a deterrent because many land cartels today fear visiting Ardhi House for fear of being arrested,” he told the committee. DCI data show that at least 108 suspects of land fraud were taken to court last year; 76 in 2018 and 60 in the year 2017. These are from 2,037 cases reported in the last three years, of which 411 are pending before court while 1,626 are under investigation. Lands PS Nicholas Muraguri last month said Kenya loses about Sh30 billion annually due to land fraud perpetrated by corrupt and quack surveyors. He said this amount was lost in land rates, expenses in costly court cases and investment opportunities lost when the disputed land lies idle. (Edited by J. Muchangi)