Kisii county has increased its hospital bed capacity in anticipation of a possible surge in Covid-19 infections. Governor James Ongwae said the county has set aside a 310-bed isolation  centre including a 15-ventilator unit. A separate centre with 60 beds is at the Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital. Speaking when he inspected the facility, governor Ongwae who was accompnied by county commissioner Stephen Kahara said more isolation centres had been prepared at Getembe, Kiamwasi, Kiogoro and Kenyerere to forestall any crisis. He said the county had set aside 100 rooms and 300 beds at KMTC Kisii and Kisii High School respectively for quarantine purposes in the county's Covid-19 containment measures. He appealed to members of the public to continue following the government guidelines towards curbing the spread of coronavirus. The county produces enough oxygen at the KTRH that can be supplied to neighbouring counties. Ongwae said the oxygen production plant at the facility is intended to ensure that Covid-19 patients and those suffering from other ailments get quality medical care. Efforts to ratchet up attention on the disease by the county chief come in the wake of surging infections in the country. In Kisii, infections have climbed to six in the last two months. The country's coronavirus death toll has gone past 190, with infections swelling to an exponential high of more that 10,000. Deaths across the globe have reached over 513,000 as researchers grope for a vaccine. Governor Ongwae said they discharged five patients following successful recovery. He, however, said it was not time to sit pretty. With the reopening of the economy, he observed, the counties are likely to be the next frontier of battles against the pandemic. "We are so far thankful those five healed quickly and none of them was put on a ventilator. The one in the ward currently is asymptomatic and we are hoping he will be out soon," the county boss said. "We would not however tire to tell our people to keep to the guidelines set by the government to keep this disease at bay." The county has so far trained more than 200 health staff to help deal with coronavirus cases brought to the health facilities in the region. On Monday, Ongwae said the county was not ill-prepared as claimed by critics in social media "Today we have gone round with you [journalists] and can ascertain for yourselves that we are most prepared to tackle any emergencies arising from this virus," he said. The governor, however, raised concerns over difficulties posed by contact tracing following the easing of movement restrictions by the government. "Initially, the Nyumba Kumi officers, chiefs and village elders played this significant role very well but it is going to be problematic tracing every person deemed to have interacted with Covid patients. My advice to our people is to maintain the social distancing rules and wear masks always," he said. Kisii county commissioner Stephen Kihara in a separate function told the youth to keep social distancing as part of the measures aimed at containing the growing infections. Edited by Henry Makori