Was it cold for you last week? Well, the Met department says you should dress up for another cold storm this week. Head of the department Stella Aura says daytime and night temperatures fell across the country last week and will remain low in the next seven days. Last week, Nyahururu recorded the lowest temperatures of 4.6 degrees at night. This week will mostly be cold and dry, with some rains in Western Kenya. "Rainfall is likely to continue over parts of the Lake Victoria Basin, the Highlands West of the Rift Valley, the Central and South Rift Valley, the Northwest and the Coast," Aura said in a seven-day forecast ending Monday. "The highlands East of the Rift Valley including Nairobi county, are likely to experience occasional cool and cloudy conditions." July marks the peak of the cold season in Kenya, but this year, it is expected to be wetter than average. Met predicts that counties in Western Kenya and Rift Valley highlands will experience enhanced rainfall this month. "Near-average to above-average rainfall is likely to be recorded over the highlands west of the Rift Valley, north, central and southern Rift Valley, parts of central highlands, northern coastal strip as well as the northwestern parts of the country," Aura said in a separate monthly forecast. These regions include Baringo, Bomet, Bungoma, Busia, Elgeyo Marakwet, Homa Bay, Kericho, Kisii, Kisumu, Kakamega, Laikipia, Migori, Nakuru, Nandi, Narok, Nyamira, Siaya, Trans Nzoia, Uasin Gishu and Vihiga counties. The expected enhanced rainfall in these counties will provide sufficient soil moisture to sustain agricultural production, Met said. The southern coastal strip is likely to receive near-normal rainfall with a tendency to depressed rainfall this month. “Cool/cold and cloudy/foggy conditions with occasional light rains/drizzles are expected to prevail over the central highlands, Nairobi county and the central and south Rift Valley.” "The southern coastal strip is, however, likely to experience below-average rainfall while the southeastern and northeastern counties are likely to remain generally sunny and dry.” Occasional cool and cloudy conditions with light morning rains/drizzles are likely to be observed in the central highlands (including Nairobi county) and some parts of the highlands west, central and south of the Rift Valley. Northeastern Kenya will remain generally sunny and dry with occasional cool and cloudy conditions over some counties. Crops in this region have been devastated by locusts, which were first reported in December last year. The Food and Agriculture Organization has said there is an increasing number of second-generation immature swarms in the region. However, FAO says there will be a decline in July with the swarms expected to migrate northwards into Sudan and Ethiopia. “Before migration, swarms will remain for a short time during which there is a considerable threat to crops and pastures in Turkana and Marsabit counties,” the report released last week says.  Edited by R.Wamochie