The contractor renovating the 30,000-seater Kinoru Stadium has been instructed by Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed to complete it by next week. During an inspection tour of the facility on Tuesday, a multi-agency committee expressed optimism that the contractor will complete work by July 15. Amina led the committee comprising national government officials, some from the Ministry of Sports and those from Meru county. “We have given the contractor up to mid this month to wind up the project and then the stadium will be handed over to the county government by the national government,” she said. CS Amina urged the contractor to ensure that the facility is completed by the set deadline. The CS said it was unfortunate that the renovation had taken such a long time, but added that she was happy with the work done so far as the field will be a model stadium to the rest of the country. “Our youths will be able to make use of the stadium to exploit their sports talents,” she said, urging youths to form sports clubs to keep them occupied instead of engaging in vices. Amina said that the national government was upgrading the stadium to international standards at a cost of more than Sh900 million, with Sh200 million having been spent in the first phase. Imenti North deputy county commissioner Mohamud Salim said the contractor was progressing well and his office was optimistic that the work will be finished by July 15. Salim said the national government will beef up security so that contractor can work round the clock to complete the work. “We will ensure the security is beefed up to enable the contractor do his work in a peaceful environment and for long hours if need be,” he said. County executive for Sports Koome Miriti said there was no reason the contractor could not complete the renovation by July 15 as all the money had been paid by the ministry. Koome said the committee supervising the renovation had spoken with the contractor to engage local youths for labour so that manpower can be increased to meet the set deadline. It has been a long journey of ups and downs for Kinoru since it was first commissioned for renovation in 2014 by the then Meru Governor Peter Munya. Edited by Henry Makori