Posta Rangers head coach Sammy 'Pamzo' Omollo is determined to keep six of his players despite being free agents following the expiry of their contracts with the club in June. Pamzo said the six, whom he declined to reveal for fear that they might be approached by their deep pocketed rivals, were in his plans for the forthcoming and subsequent seasons. The league-winning coach with Tusker revealed that negotiations between the management and the players are ongoing and four of them had inched closer to agreeing to a contract extension. Pamzo, a former international defender, said he is eager to retain them since they are still young, coupled with individual brilliance they showed during their time at Rangers. "Six of my players had their contracts end in June but I am keen on working with them in the future. Most of them are young and I want to build a strong team around them when we resume training in readiness for the new season. We have been negotiating on phone and four of them are likely to extend their stay," said the former KCB assistant coach. Besides persuading the six to stay, the former Harambee Stars centre half disclosed that he had been approached by a host of young players seeking an opportunity at the club. He affirmed his desire to work with budding players whom he praised for their desire to learn and hunger for success. "Coaches normally freak out when their best players run out contracts but I am elated that my players want to stay around. The promising bit is there are a handful of young players who have been requesting to join Rangers and I will filter and work with the best going forward," remarked the football analyst. Meanwhile, Pamzo is still appealing to the government through the Ministry of Sports to financially intervene and save the playing unit who have gone for months without pay. Rangers were among six KPL clubs who did not benefit from the government's initiative to cushion players from clubs struggling to pay salaries from the time sporting activities were suspended. The government wired Sh 10,000 to all players drawn from the rest of the 12 clubs in May. "We have had salary delays for months and my players and technical bench members are in dire straits. We wrote to the ministry requesting some support but we are yet to hear from them. I hope we are in their plans for the second edition of the disbursement," he added.