Eastern parts of the country will experience strong winds of more than 25 knots, the meteorological department has warned. The Kenya Meteorological Department has indicated that the strong winds are expected over the eastern half of the country and some parts of the Northwest. Counties in the Northeastern parts include Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo, while Kajiado, Kitui, Makueni, Machakos and Taita Taveta are within the Southeastern Lowlands. Northwestern counties include Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu. The seven-day weather forecast (July 28 to August 3) showed that rainfall is likely to continue over several parts of the country. The weatherman said the rains will be expected particularly within the Highlands West of the Rift Valley including Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Nandi, the Coastal Strip of Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu, Kwale and some parts of Northwest of Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu. “A few areas in Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Laikipia, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma, Busia, Nairobi, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu, Tharaka, Kajiado, Kitui, Makueni, Machakos and Taita Taveta Counties may also receive occasional rains,” the forecast stated. The department stated that flooding and subsequent loss of life and property was reported in Baringo county following heavy downpour during the previous weather review period of July 20-26. There will be morning rains over a few places at the beginning of the forecast period with the rest of the mornings being mainly sunny. Afternoon showers and thunderstorms are likely to occur over a few places throughout the forecast period while the rest of the nights are likely to be partly cloudy. “The Highlands East of the Rift Valley (including Nairobi, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu and Tharaka counties) and some parts of the Southeast Lowlands and the Central and South Rift Valley of Laikipia, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia are likely to experience occasional cool and cloudy conditions,” Met said. Edited by R.Wamochie