It is a chilly Monday morning and a group of young people are clearing bushes along the Mwatate-Wundanyi road in Taita Taveta county. Each of them braves the cold weather to complete the task assigned to him or her. These young men and women are among the more than 3,000 beneficiaries of the Kazi Mtaani National Hygiene Programme in the county. A majority of them have for months been struggling to make ends meet after they lost their jobs in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Jeremiah Mwadime, 27, is among those taking part in the six-month government programme. The teacher at a private school in Mwatate subcounty has been battling depression since schools were abruptly closed in March. The firstborn in a family of five said his siblings depend on him. “Being jobless has been one of my toughest moments. I had no income to sustain my daily needs. The programme has actually rescued my life,” Jeremiah told the Star. Beneficiary Habib Mghazo said the programme will give the youth a chance to start afresh. The single mother of two worked as barmaid in Mwatate town before bars were closed in a government’s raft of measures to combat the spread of the virus. She said she will save the money from the programme to start a small business. “I am targeting to open a small fruits shop or a food joint because I am not sure of my previous job. My children depend on me,” Mghazo said. The project is being implemented in Voi, Mwatate and Taveta towns. The county has been allocated Sh90 million for the programme. Each beneficiary will be earning Sh455 every day. While launching the project in Mwatate on Monday, East African Community and Regional Development Principal Secretary Margaret Mwakima downplayed claims of nepotism and corruption in the recruitment process. “The exercise was nepotism-free, we shall however investigate the claims and bring to book any government officer found liable of messing with the recruitment process,” Mwakima promised. She said participants shall be grouped into skilled and semi-skilled and be assigned different projects. Mwakima said an inter-ministerial team has developed grassroots work plans for the implementation of the programme. Edited by A.N