@alalmaurice Rice farmers in Nyanza and Western regions have been urged to supply paddy to the Lake Basin Rice Mill in Kisumu for processing. The mill, a subsidiary of the Lake Basin Development Authority (LBDA), faces a shortage of paddy — rice in husks or which has not been threshed. The authority offers farmers Sh40 per kilogramme of paddy delivered. Previously, farmers would sell their produce for Sh37 a kilogramme. LBDA managing director Raymond Omollo on Tuesday expressed concern over the shortage, which he blamed for the failure to meet the market demand for rice. The mill processes and sells high-quality graded rice, both aromatic and non-aromatic, branded as Lake Basin Pishori Rice and Lake Basin White Rice. The authority has been purchasing paddy from farmers in Bunyala (Busia), Lower Kuja (Migori), Oluch-Kimira Irrigation Scheme (Homa Bay), West Kano and Ahero (Kisumu). It has been engaging farmers to harvest and supply ready paddy. It can mill 1.1 tonnes per hour and expects to increase it to 3.5 tonnes by the end of the year. At the moment, however, getting an equivalent of 100 tonnes of paddy a week is a nightmare. “The reality is that there is insufficient paddy from farmers in Kisumu, Busia, Homa Bay and Migori counties,” Omollo said. “At the moment, my weekly demands is 56 tonnes of milled rice. For me to get 56 tonnes, I need double 56 tonnes of paddy. This translates into 3,300 bags of 50kg of rice. So I need twice the number of 3,300 bags of paddy from farmers every week.” The LBDA has signed an MoU with the Kenya National Trading Corporation (KNTC) to purchase milled rice for distribution to government institutions such as correctional facilities, schools and colleges. Some 84,000 bags of rice have been delivered to the KNTC for distribution. The authority expects to further deliver in excess of 140,000 bags. Omollo said they have been working together with government agencies to support farmers and provide a market for their harvests. They help in preparing farms and getting the right seed varieties and offers field extension support. The demand for paddy is quite huge, thus giving farmers the opportunity to expand the area under rice production. Omollo wants more parcels put under rice irrigation. In Kisumu, especially Ahero and Kano plains, he noted the significant increase in acreage that has been put to use. Omollo assured farmers of a ready market and prompt payment. "We are ready to collect it from their farms and pay them the best price,” he said. The MD said they are also working with the National Irrigation Authority and the National Cereals and Produce Board who are actively addressing infrastructural issues and providing the correct, high-yielding and quality varieties. “We are also engaging farmers' organised groups in terms of making them realise the power of the quantities of working as a group because that gives them a better bargaining price for their produce,” Omollo said. Edited by F'Orieny