All State and Public servants have been cautioned against defying regulations put in place by the government to contain spread of Covid-19 in the country. Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua on Monday said a concerning number of public officers are not strictly complying with containment measures thereby exposing themselves, colleagues and family to infection. "This has been exacerbated by the surging cases of Covid -19 infections witnessed in the country after mass and targeted testing in various communities and institutions including public service organisations," he said. "In spite the tests revealing a number of Covid-19 positive cases, there has been lack of strict observance of the issued guidelines and measure meant to enhance the efficacy of the management of the disease and protect Kenyans  from its effects." In a letter on Monday to senior state officials including the Attoney General, County governments and all Cabinet Secretaries,  Kinyua reiterated that public servants are required to avoid any form of congregation as well as re-arrange work places to not less than 1.5 metres between employee sharing offices. "Minimize walk-ins visitors except by prior appointment, maintain social distance and physical distance and record details of such visitors," he said. Kinyua said that public service organisations should provide face masks and personal protective equipment as well as alcohol based sanitizers and access to washing facilities to all staff and clients. "It is reiterated that the most effective way to limit the spread of the virus is through basic changes in individual behavior and hygiene," he said. Working from home was one of the recommendations by the government to organizations in its containment measures announced in April. Kinyua has urged such arrangements to continue with clear targets and deliverable for the officers. He said after completion of quarantine period, a public officer shall be required to obtain the requisite clearance from the isolation facility certified by the designated persons indicating that the person is free of the virus. One should also stay away from duty station for seven days after the date of medical certification. This comes one week after the Public Service Commission  announced cut down of services following cases of coronavirus confirmed among staff. The memo to all PSC staff and interns stated that the commission will temporarily scale down its operation to reduce further spread of the virus. The samples of 10 staff members turned positive for the diseases following mass testing of the entire commission fraternity that was carried out on July 1, 2020. Therefore, PSC was closed for 14 days with access to the commission offices restricted. All the staff members were also asked to proceed on self-isolation in their respective homes.