The Kisumu county government has hired a private company to offer fleet management services. Governor Anyang Nyong’o said the company will oversee the operations of the county vehicles. Already, he said, the company has been contacted and is expected to start work once due process is complete. Nyong’o said fleet management services were aimed at streamlining the county’s transport sector. “It will ensure there is efficient management of vehicles and discipline among the drivers,” he said on Tuesday. He spoke while unveiling the newly acquired ambulances at the county government offices. The ambulances will be used in Seme, Muhoroni and Kisumu East subcounties. Nyong'o noted that his administration was committed to cost-cutting, thereby the need for prudent use of public resources. Accompanied by deputy governor Mathews Owili, he said the management will ensure vehicles were only used for the intended purpose at a given time. “We want an efficient system in place that will prevent any person from misusing the vehicles without permission,” Nyong’o said. He said as part of the county’s efforts to strengthen ambulatory services in view of the heightened need for referrals, the county has acquired four new ICU-enabled ambulances. “The ambulatory services are very key in creating a seamless connection in our referral system,” Nyong’o added. He noted that the ambulances are coming in at a time when the referral preparedness is probably going to be most tested as a result of the possible spiralling of Covid-19 infections. The four ambulances bring to 10 ICU-enabled ambulances so far acquired in the last two years. They are fully equipped with oxygen supply, ECG machines, spinal boards, transport ventilators, suction units and nebulisers. Kisumu has 21 ambulances. Nyong’o said he was working on transforming the ambulatory system by ensuring the ambulances are fully equipped to save a life before a patient reached hospital. “My administration is fully committed to ensuring that ultimately the county ambulatory services only operate ICU-enabled ambulances,” he said. He, however, warned against the misuse of the ambulances. On Covid-19 preparedness, Nyong’o said the county has 387-bed capacity fully equipped to handle any case. Edited by Henry Makori