Veteran Equity Bank and national team play-maker Samba Mjomba believes she still has more to offer on the basketball court and has no plans to quit any time soon. The bankers point guard, who missed nearly half of last season because of mental and physical drain, said she will continue playing for as long as her body allows. “For me, basketball is my resting place and gives me peace. If my body decides otherwise, then I guess I will have no choice but venture into another hobby,” she opened up. Head coach David Maina welcomed the move noting, Mjomba still has the legs to continue doing what she does best and mentor the upcoming players who will step up until she departs from the scene. “She is a role model to upcoming players and she spends her time taking them through individual skills. She has a good relationship with players and always encourages them during training,” he said. Maina observed that her contributions in crucial games doesn’t go unnoticed. “Her mindset during matches and her zeal is still encouraging.” Mjomba, who has won three league titles with the bankers,  did not play much between January and August last year before deciding to return to the game. She said the break was good for her knees as she also needed a rest. She played a key role in Equity Bank’s 61-51 title win over Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) in the decisive Game Five at the Nyayo Stadium gymnasium. Mjomba lauded efforts by coaches Ben Oluoch now in Rwanda with Patriots and Sylvia Kamau, the bankers’ incoming coach who motivated her back into the game. She said after the team’s poor performance in the FIBA Africa Zone Five Club Championship in Dar-es-salaam, Tanzania, they had to prove a point by putting their act together. “We worked as a team and that was motivation enough to help me play and help my team-mates win. Last year, I only came back to intense training for a month or so before the championship in Uganda and Senegal.” She hopes to embrace coaching after quitting playing and praised coach Oluoch for helping her understand a lot of dynamics from a coaching point of view. Mjomba, who made her national team debut in Dakar in 2007, said Kenya has many talented players and what they lack is proper preparations to perform well at the continental platform. “The management should help players prepare well so as to lift the national flag high. Proper program must be put in place to help players play to their best and show Africa that we have come of age,” she said. Mjomba has also won two more league titles with Eagle Wings and bagged a bronze medal in the FIBA Africa women’s Club Championship in Morocco in 2013 with the same team.