Nairobi motorists in the city centre for shorter periods could start paying less for parking after NMS automated four major car parks. Currently, motorists pay Sh200 daily for on-street and lot parking of small vehicles in and outside the CBD. The new system will charge hourly. Desai Road, Machakos Bus station, Sunken Car park (along Aga Khan walk) and Nairobi law court parking have been automated by the Nairobi Metropolitan Service. This was per President Uhuru Kenyatta’s directives to have automation of parking facilities in at least three areas within Nairobi. NMS director general Mohammed Badi said more parking lots will be automated. “Currently, both Park Road and Desai Road are under construction and once complete they will be used as matatu termini for the Public Service Vehicles coming from Mt. Kenya region. This will also ease up traffic into the Central Business District,” he said. Badi said that NMS have held discussions with the Mt Kenya matatu saccos and the National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA). He said NMS will construct PSV termini and parking and other facilities on Waiyaki Way, Mombasa Road, Thika Road and Lang’ata Road. Last year MCAs had urged City Hall to introduce hourly parking fees to raise revenue and decongest the city. In September last year, the county assembly passed the Nairobi County Finance Bill, 2019, giving City Hall the go-ahead to charge Sh400 parking fees daily in the CBD starting December 4. The parking charges were categorised as Zone One (CBD) at Sh400, Zone Two (Parklands Westlands and Upper Hill) at Sh300, Zone Three (commercial centres) at Sh200. Daily on-street parking rates for lorries were maintained at Sh1,000 and truck with a trailer at Sh3,000. Parking charges for matatus were to increase from Sh3,650 to Sh5,000 for 14-seater vehicles per month. Thirty-two-seater matatus are to pay Sh8,000 from Sh5,200 while 51-seater buses had their charges increased from Sh7,500 to Sh10,000. In December last year, Nairobi public transport operators rejected City Hall's increment of parking fees, saying it has no justification. The Consumer Federation of Kenya sued to stop the increase of parking fees. The court ordered City Hall to reverse parking fee charges from Sh400 to previous Sh200. (edited by o. owino)