President Uhuru Kenyatta has accepted a request from the Council of Governors to reschedule the Extra-Ordinary Summit that was to be held on Friday to discuss the coronavirus containment measures. A statement from State House Spokesperson Kanze Dena on Wednesday said that the meeting will be held on Monday. "His Excellency the President has acceded to the request by the Council of Governors to reschedule the 5th Extra-Ordinary Session of the National and County Governments Co-ordinating Summit," it read. The meeting is expected to address the level of preparedness across the 47 counties in containing the pandemic that has claimed more than 200 lives in the country since March 13, 2020. Some county chiefs had indicated they will implore the President to re-impose the lockdown if the alarming pace of the pandemic continues. Forty-four out of the 47 counties have reported Covid-19 cases. Only Baringo, West Pokot and Samburu have not confirmed any cases. Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega) said he prefers the lockdown of coronavirus hotspot counties. “In the event that the situation gets dire, individual county governments will have no choice but to, in consultation with President Uhuru Kenyatta, seek to lock down the affected counties to contain the rapid spread and protect lives.” Oparanya said recently. The CoG had earlier said counties have a total of 271 isolation facilities with a total of 12,034 beds. This is against the government's target for 300 beds per county, bringing the total to 14,100. CoG chairperson Wycliffe Oparanya said there are 447 ICU beds and 437 ventilators which are dedicated for Covid-19 treatment. Oparanya added that counties have trained and sensitized an additional 4,103 healthcare workers bringing the total to 23,280. He also said that county governments have trained an additional 3,930 community health volunteers bringing the total to 68,213. According to the daily Covid-19 updates from the Ministry of Health, cases in several counties have been increasing since the President lifted cessation of movement order in Nairobi, Mombasa and Mandera. In his ninth address to the nation, Uhuru asked Kenyans to exercise their freedom of movement with caution in order to prevent more cases of the virus. Uhuru had also warned that the country will revert to lockdown in the next three weeks if the situation of the virus escalates.