Leaders and residents of Bungoma have paid tributes to Professor Maurice Mang'oli who died of Covid-19 at the Nairobi Hospital on Tuesday. The University of Nairobi lecturer had taught engineering for 35 years. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula sent condolences to the family. He said the death was a big loss to the nation. Governor Wycliffe Wangamati eulogised Mang'oli as "a seasoned teacher, a well-travelled scholar and an expert engineer who has his name and handprint on several building projects that have dotted Kenya's capital Nairobi." Wangamati said the county had suffered the brunt of Covid-19 pandemic. On Monday Dr Doreen Adisa Lugaliki, who caught the coronavirus while treating patients in Nairobi was laid to rest at her Bungoma county home. Bumula MP Mwambu Mabonga said the scholar and researcher had contributed immensely in the development of the people. "Professor was so passionate about sowing literacy in his village. He is a man I held in high esteem and the Bumula pride list has a gap," Mwambu said. Bungoma Woman Rep Catherine Wambilianga said it was unfortunate that Covid-19 had robbed the people of Bungoma another professional. Former Bumula MP Bifwoli Wakoli said he was deeply shocked to learn that his mentor and a longtime friend had died. The engineer oversaw the construction of the 13-storey Nairobi City Hall Annex in 1980. Among other organisations Mang'oli consulted for are the Insurance Regulatory Authority in 2009 and the Kenya Sugar Research Foundation in Kisumu. He also offered technical engineering valuation for the Kenya Ports Authority for assets in Mombasa, Nairobi ICD, Kisumu ICD, Eldoret ICD, Lamu, Malindi, Mtwapa. Others listed in his resume include Kenya Civil Aviation Authority, University of Nairobi and Kenya Pipeline Company. Mang'oli was an alumnus of Friends School Kamusinga and the University of Nairobi where he graduated with a first-class honours degree in Bachelor of Science (Electrical Engineering). He studied under a City Council scholarship. After his master's programme in the same course sponsored by Unesco in 1979, Mang'oli went to Pennsylvania State University, US, and completed his PhD in 1992. (edited by o. owino)