Environment CS Keriako Tobiko has outlined plans to extend the Nairobi National Park. Tobiko said his ministry will be working closely with the Ministry of Tourism to reduce the pressure on the Nairobi National Park by linking up the park with the reclaimed Ngong Road Forest to provide an expanded dispersal area for wildlife. The CS was speaking on Wednesday during a virtual meeting hosted by the Senate Standing Committee on Land, Environment and Natural Resources. "My Ministry is working with the Ministry of Tourism on a technical proposal to provide linkages through underpasses or overpasses to allow wildlife crossings, these proposals are at an advanced stage of preparation,"Tobiko said. The CS said that once the plans outlined are ready, a wildlife-proof fence will be constructed around the Ngong Road Forest Reserve. He said fencing will exempt parts of the forest that have been lawfully and validly degazetted for public purposes. Tobiko added that "Once the Ngong Road Forest Reserve has been fully reclaimed, fenced off and the animal crossings constructed, the wildlife within Nairobi National Park will be released into the newly created expanded dispersal area." Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja had questioned the CS about the plans that they have concerning the repossessed land. Residents living within the government gazetted forest lands have been asked to surrender the 'purported title document to the government for cancellation. "A long term lease(s) or Special User Licenses on new terms and conditions will be issued." Tobiko has however asked members of the public to exercise due diligence before investing their savings in buying land since it is their duty to do so, failure to which they will have themselves to blame. He has also reiterated that all forest land within the parts of Ngong Road Forest that have been illegally alienated and allocated to private individuals or entities shall be repossessed. "Ngong Road Forest Reserve except for the parts of the forest that have been lawfully and validly degazetted for a public purpose) must and shall be reclaimed, restored, conserved and protected for the benefit of all Kenyans, both present and future generations," Tobiko added.