Some metaphors are calibrated to malign the innocent. Some can be misleading. Some are intended to draw the innocent into a world alien to their characters. There is no need to embellish facts to make the truth less brutal. The so-called big fish are, in fact, big baboons, without a conscience or care about how their behaviour affects others. Exploiting the most vulnerable is fair game if it brings booties to their corner. Faked humility when caught in the act should not make them sacred cows. The report some big fish have installed Intensive Care Unit beds and ventilators in their homes when public hospital are in huge want of these facilities is not surprising. That, they suppose, is their survival kit against Covid-19. This is the sadism of big baboons. Selfish. Callous. The same people have presided over the plunder of devolved funds for seven years now. There is nothing much to show for the Sh40 billion disbursed to the counties during the seven years of devolution. Don’t even consider county generated incomes and international partnerships. Those are their pocket money. Health, which should showcase achievements of governors, remains dilapidated. Running water, which should drive the preventive campaign against Covid-19, is irregular or non-existent for large swathes of the counties. You have to get down to the villages to appreciate this fact. Water, like health, is a devolved function. Basic rights to water and healthcare rank below personnel allowances for the big fish. It was like counties were established to manage recurrent expenditures. Big fish steal your maize at night, then sell it to you at a half price by day. The gullible cheer, and marvel at how generous they are. The double character of the big fish earns them your vote, every time they manipulate you. Jobless young people cheer them, as big fish loot and plunder in readiness for the 2022 general election. They are untouchable and would want to be treated as sacred cows when they are caught with their hands deep in the public till. We should be fair to fish, small or big. They are the best dish in the hands of super chefs. We should not drag them into a world alien to their character. Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission CEO Twalib Mbarak says this is the season of calling a spade a spade. The spade cannot be a big spoon any more. For sometime now, agencies with the first legal responsibility to fight corruption have been accused of avoiding or colluding with big fish to dodge accountability. When big fish compromise hunters, they become sacred cows. They are lead agents of corruption. Big fish and scared cows should be given their rightful names to slay the dragon of impunity. During an appearance on a local TV station two weeks ago, the anti-corruption duo – Mbarak and Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji – exonerated fish, small or big, from the malice of public officers who prefer to swim with swine. By implication Mbarak and Haji also exonerated cows from giving umbrage to lords of impunity. Big fish is slang for an important and influential person, especially in an institution. These fishes have hitherto been untouchable in the fight against corruption. They have always got away with impunity. They steal and enjoy proceeds of impunity, without fear of accountability for their crimes against the public interest. Big fish have always been sacred cows. They have been untouchable, no matter how grievous their transgressions. They get away with murder, plunder, and rape. These are crimes for which little people get near-life sentences. When you find mating big baboons destroying a public farm, don’t cheer them. Like pigs of the counties, they must be slain to protect the public interest. kendowuonkendo@gmail.com