A witness was on Monday put to task to explain how a company dealing with hardware signed a Sh8 million deal with the Busia government for a solid waste management project. Jarius Oriko told Anti-Corruption magistrate Douglas Ogoti that he did not know how Madam R Enterprises knew about the project and whether they were solicited or recruited for it. Oriko was the man behind implementation of the solid waste management system in the county.  He was the designated senior superintendent. He testified for Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong, who was found to have a case to answer in the Sh8 million graft case. Ojaamong already gave his unsworn statement.  He is in court facing abuse of office and corruption-related charges. He is accused of unilaterally signing an MoU with Madam R Enterprises for a solid waste management system without due regard to procedural framework governing the management of public finances and projects, leading to loss of Sh8 million. He is charged alongside MRE and county officials. The county chief is accused of intentionally entering into the deal with the firm although he knew the project had not been budgeted for in the year 2013-14. He is said to have entered into the contract while in Berlin, Germany, on April 7, 2014. On Monday, special prosecutor Taib Ali Taib produced documents from the Office of the Attorney General showing that MRE was registered in 2007 with its nature of business  being general hardware. A document from the Department of Registration Services revealed the company ceased operation in June 2014. The witness had told the court there was a delegation from Busia who went to Germany to meet MRE, yet the document produced in court confirmed that it was a Kenyan registered entity. “So how do you explain MRE is a registered company in Germany and not Kisii?" asked Taib. “I am not an expert in that field," Oriko said. “As the person in charge of the project, you did not bother to undertake any due diligence on MRE?," the prosecutor asked. “Due diligence had already been done by my officers and the CEC Water department and county executive committee.  I was acting under the premise that my superiors did their job,” Oriko said. The court heard that the county did not have a contract for the project, just a memorandum of understanding. Asked about splitting the tender into two phases, Oriko said, “I do not know whose decision it was to split the solid waste management in two phases. My job was only to supervise the feasibility study. I am also not aware that such action was illegal”. Oriko, who was being cross-examined by Taib, said he had no knowledge that at the time they paid the Sh8 million, MRE had already  been wound up.  He maintained that no law was breached in dealing with MRE. "The project was structured in two phases: The feasibility study and construction of biogas and waste systems in Busia. The project was approved via a cabinet sitting and Ojaamong was aware of it. I'm not aware why the county paid Sh8 million to a non-existent company,” he said. MRE, according to the witness, was a development partner that was to engage all the county casuals regarding collection of garbage. “The money was not paid to them for nothing. There was value for money. They also delivered on what they were supposed to,” Oriko said. Edited by Henry Makori