At least four healthcare workers have tested positive for Covid-19 in Nyanza and unions are calling for more protective equipment. Union officials noted that the surging infections among health workers in the country was a pointer that workers battling the pandemic should be protected. They raised concern about the quality of the PPEs in use in the facilities and urged the government and all health sector employers to put stringent measures of verifying the equipment. They called on county governments to give priority to providing personal protective equipment which “should be adequate and on time.” Maurice Achochi, the county chairperson of Kenya National Union of Nurses, said the two infected nurses were working in public hospitals, one at Migori County Referral Hospital, the biggest in the county. A clinical officer at Kwibancha dispensary on the border of Kenya and Tanzania and a laboratory technician from the same area tested positive. Achochi said the medics were treated and discharged and were in stable condition. “As a union we said both cases were by accident. The Migori county health department has done enough in providing protective gear for us,” Achochi said. In Kisumu, union branch secretary Maurice Opetu said they had raised complaints to the county government health administration over the poor quality of masks supplied in the facilities for the last two weeks. He said the masks were substandard, simply made from shopping bags material. He said health workers were in panic following the death of two nurses and a doctor. “The supply of the PPEs should also be consistent and adequate to ensure protection of the healthcare providers. Continuous training and sensitisation of all health workers on their safety and care of Covid-19 patients is key and should be improved to meet the increasing need in Covid-19 management,” Opetu said. He further stated that the Covid-19 medical emergency allowance should be paid to health workers as was offered by the President to motivate them. The pandemic will not end within the three months initially covered by the payment structure from SRC, he said. “The government should move with speed to establish and approve a special life insurance policy for health workers to compensate their families in case one loses the fight. Understaffing should be addressed with more seriousness to resonate with the surge of the pandemic,” Opetu said. His Kisii counterpart Eric Rioba said they were still apprehensive that lack of adequate personal protective equipment was likely to make many health workers avoid suspected Covid-19 patients. "Those infections of nurses and other health staff in Nairobi should not be seen as an isolated incident in the face of this growing spread of the disease,” he said. He said counties were likely to be the new battle grounds for the virus, thus there was urgent need to ensure health staff are protected. Rioba spoke of the growing need for county administrations to buy more PPEs as part of preparedness for a possible surge of infections. "The frontline soldiers against this unseen enemy are health staff who should be guaranteed their safety throughout as they treat patients of this dreaded disease," Rioba said. “We are currently working in fear of contracting the virus since we are the people who handle all sorts of patients in the health facilities in this county. We are asking the county government to ensure we have adequate protective equipment since our lives are at stake," a nurse working in Nyamira County Referral Hospital said. Governor John Nyagarama and Health CEC Douglas Bosire asked residents not to panic as every measure was in place to ensure the pandemic was contained. "We are working hard to ensure that the Covid-19 pandemic is contained in our county so that residents can resume their businesses. We are urging members of the public to adhere to the guidelines from the Ministry of Health so that we can overcome the deadly pandemic," Nyagarama said in a statement. Currently, a total of 429 health workers have tested positive for Covid-19, the latest being staff at the country's largest maternity hospital. A total of 41 workers at Pumwani Maternity Hospital in Nairobi tested positive, 19 of whom are healthcare workers. The result of a study recently published in the BioMed Central exploring the perceived infection routes for healthcare workers revealed that most of them are infected when attending to patients. Edited by Henry Makori