The government will in the next nine months establish a centre for the diagnosis and treatment of cancer, Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe said on Friday. The Integrated Molecular Imaging Centre (IMIC) will be set up and the Kenyatta University Teaching, Research and Referral Hospital. It will make it possible to diagnose and treat cancer in its early stages. Kagwe said the process to establish the hospital had started with the signing of a contract between the contractor and the hospital on Friday. It will be the first public IMIC in the country and in the East and Central Africa region. Kagwe said the centre will remove the need for Kenyans to travel to South Africa and India to access Pet scan and other equipment needed to diagnose and treat cancer. The centre will also set up the first public cyclotron plant to manufacture consumables used in the pet scan machine. At the moment, the consumables are only available in South and Northern Africa. “The President approved the project to save the lives of Kenyans who wait for long periods to get a proper diagnosis of cancer and will be breaking ground for the project in the next few weeks,” Mutahi said. The government has already welcomed 20 Cuban doctors who will be stationed at the KU hospital to help run the IMIC. The doctors who arrived in Nairobi on Friday night will be in the country for the next six months and will work with local doctors to exchange knowledge. “We partnered with the Cuban government to improve health care services in 2018. The partnership has seen Kenyan doctors receive specialised training in Cuba and Cuban doctors were deployed to provide health care services through-out our country,” the CS said. The doctors are specialists in internal medicine, oncology, cardiology, renal and pediatrics. Mutahi said with Covid-19 infections rising, the doctors will also support local colleagues to manage the disease and exchange expertise. “On behalf of the government, we are thankful to the Cuban government through its embassy for the kind gesture and President Uhuru Kenyatta through whose efforts we are receiving the doctors,” Kagwe said. He said the provision of medical equipment alone is not enough to improve health care services and that personnel must continuously be trained. The CS spoke at Kiria-ini Mission Hospital in Murang’a during the commissioning of a new outpatient centre. He said primary health facilities in the country are ailing, a fact he said was burdening higher-level hospitals. The poor state of level 1, 2 and 3 hospitals causes patients to seek treatment for minor ailments in referral facilities that should concentrate on more complex diseases, Kagwe said.  Edited by P.O