Kenya has been awarded the World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC), Safe Travel Stamp after adopting the global health and hygiene protocols dubbed ‘Safe Travels. Speaking when he unveiled the Magical Kenya Travel & Tourism Health and Safety Guidelines and Protocols, Tourism cabinet secretary Najib Balala said the recognition was timely as the country prepares to reopen the tourism and hospitality industry after months of closure. Kenya, in line with global reopening of tourism and travel protocols made its submission drafted by National Tourism and Hospitality Protocols Taskforce to the World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC) and the World Tourism Organization (UNWTO) for validation. “I am delighted to announce that Kenya has been listed among the 80 global destinations certified and authorised to use the “World Travel and Tourism Council Safe Travel Stamp” together with our Magical Kenya Logo,’’ Balala said. He added that the stamp will allow travellers to recognise Kenya as a safe destination once it reopens. The tourism and travel sector has been one of the worst-hit globally following the outbreak of the Covid-19 Pandemic. In Kenya the Balala said revenue from the sector dropped 98 per cent, incurring a loss of slightly above Sh80 billion. “The Protocols we have launched today will provide guidance for the tourism sector’s reopening as we look to actualise the tourism recovery initiatives that have been facilitated by the government going forward,’’ Balala said. The protocols seek to achieve institutional, operational and staff preparedness to ensure service provision meets required guidelines aimed at preventing the spread of COVID-19. They will also ensure a safe experience for visitors, rebuild trust and confidence, and Implement enabling policies and guidelines to provide a step-by-step process of a careful reopening of the sector. Interior CS Fred Matiang’ i and his health counterpart Mutahi Kagwe who witnessed the launch urged tourism industry players to prioritise their health in the new normal setup.