The family of former Kanu minister John Cheruiyot is pleading for help to raise Sh2.3 million to repay his 21-year-old debt for campaign materials – and get him out of civil jail. Cheruiot is 77-years-old and is said to be in ill health. The Nandi politician was Cooperatives Development minister during President Daniel Moi’s era and was influential in the ruling Kanu party. Last week he was arrested in Nairobi and taken to Industrial Area Remand Center to serve six-months in civil jail after previous promises, a written pledge to pay and bounced cheques. His family is asking Kanu to help him clear the debt for 50,000 Kenya African National Union (Kanu) papers and caps in 1994. Kanu secretary general Nick Salat did not pick calls or answer messages seeking comment. Chariot was convicted of defrauding businessman Lango Odhiambo, who provided Sh2.3 million services 21 years ago. Lango owned a firm that supplied campaign materials to Cheruiyot for elections in Nandi. Lango had sued Cheruiyot and three other former powerful Kanu officials — Joseph Kamotho, Wilson Ndolo and Japheth Lijoodi — who have all died, leaving Cheruiyot to pay the debt. “We tried in vain to raise the money but it has been difficult for the family and Mzee was taken away to jail despite his bad health as a result of old age," his son Kevin Cheruiyot said. “We are pleading with the party he served to help pay the debt because it was incurred while he was serving the party," Cheriyot said. Court documents indicated Cheruiyot had agreed to pay but was unable to raise the money. "It is hereby ordered that the debtor be re-arrested and committed to civil jail," the court ordered on February 27, 2020. In 2015 Cheruiyot had been sentenced to a six months in jail but was released after signing an out-of-court agreement to repay the debt in instalments. Cheruiyot had agreed to pay Odhiambo Sh1 million and settle the rest in Sh50,000 monthly instalments. He did not honour the agreement. While in jail, the convict receives Sh60 daily subsistence allowance. Odhiambo had argued that Cheruiyot had been released on September 11, 2015, after pledging to make the payments. Cheruiyot issued several cheques to Odhiambo but they bounced, leading the businessman to have Cheruiyot committed to civil jail. (Edited by V. Graham) 