Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has claimed that he was given liquor before surrendering Nairobi to President Uhuru Kenyatta. "I was not sober. Hawa watu wa State House waliconfuse na pombe kwanza (The people at State House confused me with alcohol first) by the time I was meeting the President for the signing I was just seeing zigzag," he said. Via Facebook on Thursday evening, Sonko said that even though he was drunk, he had to sign the documents out of the respect he had for the President. "...and also both of us meant well for you the Great people of Nairobi," he said. Sonko noted that he will not entertain intimidation from NMS boss Mohamed Badi. "...huyu jeshi akiendelea (this military man)  by not complying with the law then they better impeach me just like Waititu but I will not entertain his intimidation anymore," he said. "He's forgetting this is just a contract and it can be terminated at any stage..." Four functions of Nairobi County Government were handed over to the National Government. Sonko and Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa signed an agreement. Sonko handed over the functions of the County to the National Government, pursuant to Article 187 of the Constitution. Since Sonko surrendered county functions on March 18, there has been a  deep-rooted rivalry between him and Badi. However, Badi has maintained he is not interested in politicking. “I’m not a politician and I don’t have a say in politics and don’t wish to do so. Mine is service delivery. I’m here as your servant and I can assure you I will work around the clock to ensure that all the 85 wards are developed,” he said last month. He said government and opposition sides are strange terms to him because as far as he is concerned, all are Kenyans. Last week, Sonko appeared before the Senate oversight committee to respond to audit queries without documents and blamed Badi for "irregularly" seconding to his entity county staff responsible for handling books of account. The Badi-headed NMS is tasked with undertaking county functions transferred to the national government on February 25. The governor also cited a court's ruling that he should not access his office or interact with county staff for the lack of documents. This forced the committee to adjourn the proceedings.