Banditry attacks in Baringo county have claimed the lives of seven people since January. The latest attack was at the weekend in which one person was killed in Nassoukro in Baringo South. In the seven months, six people have been injured and thousands displaced. On Saturday, Lemari Mwaitano, 30, succumbed to an abdomen bullet injury at the county referral hospital in Kabarnet town where he was admitted. “Mwaitano was attacked by armed bandits on Friday while herding his cattle in Nassoukro, Baringo South,” Marigat OCPD Bonjolive Munuve said on Wednesday. Mwaitano's brother Dancan Lekichep is still nursing bullet injuries in the thigh. Munuve said the bandits shot to disburse the group of herders before driving away over 100 head of cattle. The stolen animals are yet to be recovered. The police boss further said enough officers have been deployed to beef up security. Hundreds of armed officers are currently camping at Nginyang and Chemolingot in Tiaty subcounty. “We are blaming security officers based at the nearest Kiserian camp for being reluctant and failing to support us during the attack,” resident Benjamin Ole’Supen said. On July 5, two Pokot herders Yolenyang Lomerngoria and Awialan Nyangatepa were injured after suspected Turkana bandits raided Atirir village in Tirioko ward of Tiaty subcounty in Baringo. The over 300 armed bandits drove away more than 1,000 cows and 3,000 goats and sheep towards Turkana East subcounty. On February 21, the bandits ambushed and killed three Tugen NPRs at Mairo hills along Mochongoi-Chemorongion-Marigat road in Baringo South bringing the death toll to six. The same week, the suspected Pokot bandits attacked Ng’aratuko village, shot and injured a Standard 6 boy before stealing a number of animals. On April 2, angry Tugen youths raided Ng’inyang in Tiaty subcounty, injuring a Pokot herder and driving away 60 goats, an incident which aggravated the situation. The goats were all were recovered. On May 13, suspected bandits attacked Ng’aratuko village in Baringo North subcounty shooting and injuring a disarmed Tugen National Police Reservist Enock Rong'uno, 28. Shoot-to-kill order On April 16, Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya issued a shoot-to-kill order against armed bandits in North Rift. Natembeya said whoever holds an illegal firearm and uses it to kill an innocent person has no right to live. “Firearm for firearm. You kill a Kenyan with your gun then expect also to be killed. Bandits are not the only ones who know how to kill,” he said. The victims appealed for quick action to help recover the stolen livestock and calm the situation. Affected Baringo residents also want their Turkana counterparts to be disarmed in the ongoing disarmament operation. More than 800 Tugen residents have fled their homes in the volatile parts of Kagir, Yatya, Chemoe, Barketiew and Kosile since Friday last week. The IDPs are now camping in the bushes at Rormoch, Karimo, Rondinin, Chapin, Barbarchuch, Sibilo, Chebarsiat, Akoroyan and Chepkowel. At the same time, residents have fled the volatile parts of Ngelecha, Arabal, Chemorong’ion, Chebinyiny and Sirata in Baringo South. The victims are currently congested in temporary camps in the bushes risking infection by Covid-19, and hunger. However, residents are blaming the resurgence of attacks on untimely withdrawal and disarmament of some 300 NPR late last year. "The government should carry all the blame on these frequent attacks for the deliberate withdrawal of the NPR officers who use to help repulse the aggressors," Bartawa MCA Reuben Chepsongol said. Leaders among them Baringo North MP William Cheptumo, Charles Kamuren (South) and William Kamket(Tiaty) condemned the frequent attacks. Baringo South resident Joseph Kipkorir, however, reiterated on the re-arming the NPR officers saying so far, at least 10 people have died and over 2,000 families displaced. "Although we support the work done by the police officers, we still suggest revival of NPR because they know the terrains better and can pursue the bandits to their hideouts," Kipkorir said. Edited by R.Wamochie