The third time she ran away from her husband, Abigail Mpeti, 10, hid in the bushes for four days drinking morning dew and eating wild berries and leaves. She had been forcefully cut when she was nine and taken to her husband's house at 10.  A week later, she ran away and returned to her parent's house. "My parents beat me and returned me to the man, but I ran away again. They told me I needed to go back because they could not afford to return the cows that had received as my bride price," she said. She was speaking to the Global Youth Ambassador Programme hosted by Planned Parenthood for the development of the Story Zetu Anthology. The anthology is meant to inspire hope, empathy, urgency, agency, commitment, reflection and action on youth sexual reproductive health rights challenges. Abigail, 11, had always expressed interest in studying but her father had told her he did not have enough cows for school fees. However, he made a promise to take her to school when the situation improved. She would only later find out, he had all along been looking for a husband for her. When she returned home the third time, they informed her that her husband had said he did not want her because she had brought him shame. To repay him, they decided to marry her off to another man. "In this new home I was tortured and abused, I was overworked and sent to watch the goats and fetch water all the time. It was while in this home that I heard girls who did not want to be married could run to Naning’oi school which rescues girls," she said. "One day I followed the women to the market, but they asked me to go back home. I ran away into the bushes, and eventually found Naning’oi school at night. When I grow up I want to be a lawyer and fight for the rights of girls." When Miriam Mpoke was 10, she ran away to a chief's camp together with her younger sister hoping to be rescued from an early marriage. She had been cut when she was nine years old. As her parents were busy looking for a man to marry her, they fled from home in pursuit of Naning’oi rescue centre. "I heard about the centre from other girls in the neighborhood. So I planned to go with my younger sister," she said. "We ran from Oldepe to Enkipai, where we went to see the area chief and explained our situation. The chief took us to his house. We would learn later on that he had contacted the Oldepe chief and asked him to come and pick us up." Lucky for them, their area chief decided to take them to the rescue centre instead, after listening to their plight. "I want to be a teacher. I still want to give back to my parents when I start working because they are poor and they need money. I also want to help other girls to go to school like me," she said. To become cutters, women have to prove themselves by first cutting their own daughters. This is according to Leah Mbaira, 57,  Anti-FGM activist and former circumciser. "I became a circumciser for girls a very long time ago. Female genital cutting was the order of the day. I did it to many girls in the community, even my own children," she said. "Clearly I wasn’t chosen by the community but when they see you’ve circumcised your own daughters you already have the experience, they come to you to circumcise any other girl in the community." Most cutters also act as midwives, and she was a midwife. Despite preachings against harmful cultural practices at her local church, she did not stop. "One day I circumcised my own daughter and she bled so much it was terrifying. She was rushed to the hospital and unfortunately, she died later that night. That’s when I realised female genital cutting is not good," she said. The people in society now see her traitor because she would not return to the practice. "Those who resist have a hard time, they are isolated and ostracized. There is a need for clear education and proper information on the dangers of female genital cutting," she said. Edited by R.Wamochie