Aziza, the first wife of former Changamwe MP Ramadhan Kajembe, was Friday laid to rest at the family cemetery in Kwa Shee, Jomvu constituency. Aziza died on Friday morning barely four months after Kajembe lost his second wife Zaharia. Aziza had been admitted to Mombasa Hospital for an unspecified illness. The 3pm burial was conducted under strict Covid-19 regulations. The casket was carried by health officers donned in hazmats. Aziza was laid to rest next to her firstborn son, Seif Kajembe, who died on November 14, 2017. Tens of family and friends watched the burial proceedings from a distance. Earlier, police had to disperse hundreds of mourners who had thronged the home of the former MP. Trouble started when a group of mourners tried to block health officers from accessing the house to fumigate it. The officers had to call their superiors to report the matter. Shortly after, three police vans full of anti-riot officers arrived and dispersed the crowds. Only then did the health officials enter the house. After fumigation, entry or exit was restricted. A police van with four armed officers was stationed outside the house. Only Kajembe, his driver and two other people were allowed to leave the house for Masjid Noor, where the body was prayed for. "It was chaotic. But those troublemakers were only a handful of youth who were drunk and mourned more than the bereaved,” an aide to the ex-MP told the Star. After the Swalatul Mayit, special prayers for the dead, Kajembe, too distraught to watch his first wife buried, was taken back home. Jomvu MP Badi Twalib, who is Kajembe’s son-in-law, was escorted to the burial by five police officers. “The security officers feared if I was alone, it would have been difficult to control my supporters,” the MP said. Twalib described his mother-in-law as a brave woman who championed for the empowerment of women in society. Mombasa county assembly majority leader Musa Mwidani was  present during the burial. Women were allowed to watch the proceedings from a distant as they are not allowed in cemeteries. 