Parents whose children are on international systems of education, this is not for you. I have nothing against private schools trying to remain afloat. They should. To do so at the expense of parents, many of whom are on 25, 50 or 75 per cent of regular incomes in exchange for worthless garbage is what I am against. Kenya currently has no policy for online teaching that can lead to online examination and certification. The infrastructure and capabilities fall short of supporting such as policy even if it existed. The government is clear that basic education, as it stands, is frozen in time. Any school following KCPE and KCSE curricular and purporting to offer to teach 'ahead' is nothing but a scam; when schools reopen all children will repeat the class they were in 2020. There will not be a special group of students who have read ahead. I, therefore, find it misconceived to ask parents to pay second term 'fees' when ultimately kids will have to start from Term One. Private schools should look at parents in the eyes and speak the truth. No amount of sleek sounding marketing gimmicks would work. It is just robbery. Speak to parents, truthfully. Say schools need to run to ensure when learners resume they find a running entity. Agree on reasonable token payments to cover teacher salaries even if 50 per cent pay. Utility fees for electric, routine maintenance e.t.c and as an appreciation offer interactive limited student-teacher virtual interactions. Children's screen time must be limited. Do these schools even care about that? No policy for online learning for basic education exists and children's use of adult tools like emails, Zoom accounts, phone numbers is highly undesirable. This mixing of children activity with adults' is blurring the line and denying children the right to be children. Besides, accidental exposure to adult content is inevitable. In such cases what do children do? The Parents Association of Kenya or such other organisations are clearly failing the people they purport to represent. For these reasons, let private schools be polite and allow the president and the task force on education work out a path. Everyone is hurting and scared. No need to push their agendas endlessly. The Educationist and former Education CEC Nairobi County spoke to the Star