Police thwarted an attempted terror attack at a police station in Garissa at dawn on Thursday. Suspected al Shabaab militants numbering about 20 attacked Korakora area and destroyed a Safaricom mast, cutting of the network. They then attempted to overrun Korakora police station but were repulsed by police after heavy gunfire. There were no casualties reported on either side. Pictures showed burned guns and a building near the mast. Northeastern regional commissioner Nick Ndalana said all officers at the police station had been accounted for. "We are following them as we speak. We trailed their footsteps and its like at some point they got into a vehicle," he told the Star on phone. He said police choppers had been deployed to track the militants. “They escaped to very far place after the attack but we are pursuing them. We are using everyone available,” he said. The attack comes two days after security forces foiled an attempted kidnapping at Dabacity area, El Wak, near the Somali border. Reports indicate that al Shabaab militants hijacked a civilian driven Land Cruiser with eight occupants. They were however intercepted by KDF while driving the car to Somalia through Wajir. The occupants were rescued by KDF ground operation assisted by a drone. The attacks follow intelligence reports of sightings of the militants in the area. While Somali National Army and AMISOM pursue the militant group in Somalia, Northeastern Kenya counties  have experienced periodic attacks. Security agents have blamed locals for collaborating with the terror group to carry out attacks, with many non-Somali professionals leaving the region over insecurity. On May 16, heavily armed attackers raided Khorof Kharar police post, Wajir East, with motors and grenades and launched heavy gunfire that saw police officers retreat to nearby bushes. On June 14, two al Shabaab militants were killed by police during an attack targeting a telecommunication's mast in Warankalla, Mandera. A police reservist was killed during the attack. Edited by Henry Makori