DP William Ruto’s allies have rubbished as non-consequential the takeover of leadership positions in parliament by ODM saying the move undermined parliamentary democracy. They have accused President Uhuru Kenyatta and his team of hijacking Parliament which they say is no longer independent and would be used to force selfish gains onto Kenyans. The allies led by Soy MP Caleb Kositany said the removal of Ruto allies from leadership positions in the House did not weaken the DP whose resolve to succeed President Kenyatta remains on course. Kositany said schemers wanted to have committee leadership that would to agree to everything as way of preparing for quick passage of the Building Bridges Initiative report in Parliament. “They just wanted yes people all over so that they can quickly endorse the BBI," Kositany said. Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi expressed similar views and vowed that despite efforts by some to politically undercut Ruto, Kenyans would eventually make the final decision. “They can do everything and undermine him in all ways but we are sure the voice of Kenyans will prevail," Sudi said. The two MPs spoke separately in Eldoret. Kositany, who is Jubilee's deputy Secretary General said following the change in parliamentary leadership, the opposition was controlling the government in what he said was a clear attempt to undermine oversight. “But those of us who know what is going on will take over the role of oversight in Parliament and inform Kenyans of everything and fight to ensure the political brokers do not mess up with the gains which the country has achieved after so many years," he said. Kositany said the removal of Ruto allies from positions in the National Assembly and Senate was not because of incompetence but that they had been targeted. The MP insisted that Ruto’s team would fight tooth and nail to ensure Jubilee is managed and operated in a manner that would respect the rights of its members. “Members have invested heavily in Jubilee and they will not allow a few individuals to mess up with its finances." He said Secretary General Raphael Tuju must adhere to the party’s constitution and stop being used to wreck the party. Kositany has demanded audited accounts of the party claiming some individuals were keen to mess up with billions of shillings raised by members of the party. There are claims the jubilee financial muscle that guns into billions of shillings is partly to blame for the growing differences between President Kenyatta’s and Ruto's teams. Ruto allies have cited irregular withdrawals and misuse of party finances. Edited by R.Wamochie