Hulugho and Masalani MCAs in Garissa have accused some influential personalities of behind a push to have recent appointments of chiefs and their assistants nullified for their own interests. Addressing the press in Garissa town on Sunday, Abubakar Shide (Masalani) and Adow Omar (Hulugho) said they are aware that some politicians are ‘moving from one office to the other in the Ministry of Interior to influence the appointments to suit their personal interests'. They said they will resist changes in the appointments that have already been approved by regional commissioner Nicodemus Ndalana. Abubakar said the group is using its financial muscle to influence public appointments, thus compromising the integrity of the process of appointing public servants. He noted that less qualified individuals are being appointed to positions they can't manage. “We are saying no to any attempts to scuttle the appointment of the chiefs and their assistants who were shortlisted and interviewed based on their qualifications and experience,” Abubakar said. “Chiefs and their assistants have bearing on the security of an area. Those appointed should be able to gather actionable intelligence and maintain confidentiality." "Those they are pushing to replace the chiefs and their assistants recently appointed are known to be incompetent and will likely compromise the security in the area,” he added. Omar said he was personally satisfied by the process of shortlisting and interviewing of the approved candidates. “Those appointed for the posts were deserving. We congratulate the interviewing panel for a good job done,” Omar said. “The Ministry of Interior has streamlined the process of appointing chiefs and their assistants. We are satisfied as a leadership and that is why we sending this message,” he added. The MCA noted that in the previous years, the appointment of chiefs and their assistants used to take years because of political interference but ‘thank God the process is now done in a professional manner’. Among the posts being contested are those of Abalotiro and Hulugho locations. Edited by EKibii