A section of the opposition is said to have been seriously disappointed by sentiments associated with a Jubilee leader holding a senior parliamentary position. The circle is said to have been angered by the sentiments they claimed border on blackmail. The group, a little bird whispers to Corridors, had also objected to a senior Jubilee official’s claims last month that the party was doing them a favour by offering their party committee positions. They strongly believe they are being taken for granted. According to moles in the small unit, it is just a matter of time and they will soon set the record straight on the underlying issues. The CEO of a parastatal in Nyanza is on the spot over skewed staff recruitment. The hiring appears to be  an effort to appease recently appointed board members by having their relatives promoted from interns to permanent employees with huge perks, higher than those of some experienced employees. Despite intervention by the parent ministry to stop the recruitment and order revocation of appointment letters, the CEO has reportedly vowed to go on with the employment by “hook or by crook”. The man is said to be working in cahoots with an MP from the Rift Valley who boasts of sitting in a Parliamentary committee that oversights the agency. He hopes to help the man cement his position as the de facto boss in the agency. Now, leaders within the agency’s jurisdiction want ministry bosses to take action and restore order. Cartels have reportedly infiltrated relief food programmes in Northern Kenya, particularly in the Dadaab refugee camp. Reports indicate scrupulous businessmen and women mop up the relief food in the camp as well as food in Wajir and Mandera counties and then repackage it for sale. The produce that includes beans, peas and rice is later sold in Nairobi and Thika Town. Sources indicate the traders have colluded with police officers managing Garissa Bridge. Maybe Interior PS Karanja Kibicho (pictured) should intervene. Fear has gripped Kisumu town that a gang could be re-emerging after its powers had subsided following Jubilee and ODM working together through the March 9, 2018, handshake deal. The public is worried that the dreaded China Squad that attacked locals in the run-up to the 2013 General Election could be slowly returning to brutalise residents. This follows a spate of attacks in the last month allegedly orchestrated by a section of the gang spearheaded by a member who is a businessman. What worries residents most is that suspects are usually released mysteriously without facing the law. They want Vigilance House to follow up to restore their confidence in law enforcement.