Moiben MP Silas Tiren has been elected the new Agriculture committee chairman, taking over from Mandera South lawmaker Adan Ali. Ali was among the 16 allies of Deputy President William Ruto who were axed from committee leadership last month by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The Moiben MP was elected unopposed on Thursday at Parliament Buildings. Laikipia Woman representative Catherine Waruguru was elected vice chairperson of the committee. She replaces Navakholo MP Emmanuel Wangwe, who was elevated to Chief Whip. Tiren reclaims his position, which he relinquished in 2018 after Jubilee favoured Ali. Tiren was elected Agriculture committee chairman in 2017, trouncing Ali, who was Jubilee’s preferred candidate. The Moiben lawmaker was, however, pushed out to create room for the party’s candidate. Shinyalu MP Justus Kizito and Nyamira Woman Representative Jerusha Momanyi were elected chairperson and vice chairperson of the Broadcasting and Library committee. Their elections were unopposed. Limuru MP Peter Mwathi and Chepalungu's Gideon Koske will serve the Committee on Labour and Social Welfare as chairman and vice chairperson respectively. The minority and majority sides have already agreed on the leadership of all the committees and the elections will be just formal endorsement. For instance, Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga has been proposed as the chairperson of the Finance and Planning committee, she will be deputised by Roysambu MP Waihenya Ndirangu Tiaty lawmaker William Kamket will chair the Delegated Legislation committee, deputised by Mbeere North MP Charles Muriuki Njagagua. Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi will take over the chairmanship of the Constituencies Development Funds committee. Mandera East MP Omar Mohammed Hassan has been retained as the vice chairman. Garsen legislator Ali Wario will chair the Regional Integration committee, while Lamu Woman Representative Ruweida Mohammed will serve as deputy. Kieni MP Kanini Kega will take over the chairmanship of the powerful Budget and Appropriations committee, with Eldama Ravine lawmaker Moses Lessonet serving as his deputy. Kiambu Woman Representative Gathoni Wamuchomba has been proposed to serve as the vice chairperson of the Transport, Public Works and Housing committee, chaired by Pokot South MP David Pkosing. Mavoko MP Patrick Makau will lead the Sports, Culture and Tourism committee as chairperson. Narok South MP Korei ole Lemein has been retained as the vice chairman. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya