Thirteen health workers in Migori are among 224 cases of Covid-19 that have been confirmed in the border county. Governor Okoth Obado on Tuesday said they co0unty was doing everything possible to protect its frontline soldiers in the war on coronavirus. The county had by Tuesday tested 3,883 samples. “We are deeply touched by the plight of medics who were at the frontline to prevent the spread of Covid-19 among us and in course of discharging their duties, they were infected," Obado said. He was speaking at Migori Referral Hospital when he received a consignment of PPEs worth Sh237 million from Equity Bank. The governor hosted Equity Bank Chief Operating Officer Polycarp Igathe who handed over the consignment that included goggles, facemasks, gumboots, facial shields, gowns, bodysuits, face masks, surgical masks and gloves. “We are planning to roll out the second phase of distribution at a tune of over Sh400 million after this current batch across all 47 counties,” Igathe said. He said most items were manufactured locally and have met the highest standards set by the World Health Organization. "We are out to support men and women on the front line and to care for them as they take care of the public,” Igathe said. He said Equity Bank founder James Mwangi and family donated Sh300 million, the bank also donated Sh300 million while their partner Master Card Foundation donated Sh500n million to the national Covid-19 emergency fund. Igathe said the company has noted recommendations from county governments during the first phase of the distribution of PPEs and will walk with them in the second phase. “Migori is a big risk county because of close proximity with Tanzania, and we want a testing center at the border point as moving to Kisumu delays data,” Igathe said. He said apart from medics, Migori will also work with 2,536 community health volunteers to help in home-based care of patients, contact tracing and surveillance reporting. “Covid-19 has stretched out our resources and effective containment and the matter requires the support of medics and partners like Equity Bank,” he said.  Edited by P.O