Two MPs have protested the Mzalendo list of shame that ranked them on the basis of their contributions in Parliament. The lawmakers – both of whom got unfavourable rankings – came out guns blazing, dismissing the report as insignificant in their role as people’s representatives. George Aladwa (Makadara) and Walter Owino (Awendo) told the Star that ‘action speaks louder than words’ and their success as elected leaders cannot be reduced to the number of times they catch the house speaker’s eye. Aladwa said his tenure will be judged more based on what he does to his constituents as opposed to the number of times he speaks in Parliament. He said so long as his constituents are getting the services he promised, he is not perturbed by any ranking on his contributions in the house. “At the end of my five-year term, I will be judged not on how many times I spoke in Parliament but by the degree of development I made during my tenure. Let me make it clear that my constituents had confidence in me and elected me to work for them, a mandate I'm executing,” Aladwa said. “I will re-seek my mandate to represent them [constituents] again not because I spoke a thousand and one times but because of the legacy of development I shall have accomplished.” The former Nairobi city mayor noted that providing a good learning environment, roads and opportunities tops his agenda and he will not get distracted by "sponsored reports". For his part, Owino sought to know what the contributions are based on to warrant a mention. “We should not forget there are committees which are an extension of the plenary. When at the plenary, it is at the discretion of the speaker to point out who speaks. “Owing to the time constraints, we take advantage of committees to raise issues affecting our electorate. The Mzalendo team should go checking committee hansards before they rate members,” he said. Aladwa and Owino were ranked as the most silent MPs in the august house. Wajir South MP Mohamud Sheikh, who fared well compared to his colleagues, said the quality of contributions matter more than the number of times one speaks. “Let’s also look at the substance of what someone puts before the house as we get to check how active members are,” he said. Lawmakers who were rated above average in the Mzalendo report included James Nyikal (Seme), David Pkosing (Pokot South), Julius Melly (Tinderet), Omboko Milemba (Emuhaya), TJ Kajwang (Ruaraka), Opondo Kaluma (Homa Bay Town) and George Murugara (xx). Others included Amos Kimunya (Kipipiri), Jeremiah Kioni (Ndaragwa), Abdulswamad Nassir (Mvita), Paul Koinange (Kiambaa), Kanini Kega (Kieni), Daniel Maanzo (Makueni), Otiende Amollo (Rarieda), Katoo ole Metito (Kajiado South), Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja), Robert Mbui (Kathiani) and Maoka Maore (Igembe North). Edited by F'Orieny