Presidential escort officers have been barred from chewing miraa and muguka. In a notice from the head of presidential escort unit, the ban takes effect from July 6. The notice signed by George Kirera said the ban follows health risks that the substance has posed on majority of the officers. "Please be informed that it has been noted with high level of concern by this office that chewing miraa and muguka is posing a lot of health risk to our personnel and their families," read part of the notice. It further read, "With effect from July 6, 1400 hrs, no Prescort personnel or civilian residing within the camps will be allowed to chew miraa or muguka within the camps or work station". According to the notice, any officer who will breach the directive will face severe administrative action. "Bring this information to the attention of all personnel and acknowledgement receipt of this signal on or before July 7," the notice read. In 2015, a study indicated that consumption of miraa affects the sexual capability of men and could lead to heart attack. The study by lecturers from Moi University, which was commissioned by the Government revealed that the plant affects the mortality of sperm. Lead scientist Ochiba Lukanda said that a similar study conducted in the Middle East had proven that men who stopped chewing the plant performed well in bed. "The consumption of the drug also results in a rise in blood pressure but it does not cause cancer as has been reported in some quarters," Dr Lukanda said. He noted that a study conducted in areas where miraa is grown had shown that a high number of boys were dropping out of school. "The boys are working on miraa farms and in packaging, which is very lucrative, and this has adversely affected the quality of education in these areas," he said. Lukoye Atwoli said that the ingredients in the plant also affected the quality of sperm after long use. The doctor said miraa also causes some mental disorders like mood swings and depression. "Apart from affecting education, the plant has other health implications and there is need for more studies on the effects of miraa," he said. The report was handed to Parliament for action.