Two police officers who allegedly shot dead two Garissa residents at Soko Ngombe on Saturday were on Tuesday detained for seven days. Aden Madobe and Muhiyadin Shibin were shot and killed on the spot allegedly by the DCI officers, who were dispersing a crowd that was protesting the arrest of a murder suspect. Garissa senior resident magistrate Timothy ole Tanju allowed the police to hold Aden Salat and Abdirahman Samow for seven days at the Garissa police station before they conclude their investigations. The investigating officer Paul Mwita in an affidavit told the court they are yet to record witness statements and obtain ballistic examination reports. He, however, noted that the firearms of the two officers have been confiscated. Mwita had initially requested for 14 days, which the court declined and asked the police to complete their investigation within seven days. The suspects are expected back in court on August 4. The Garissa law courts' premises was jammed as early as 8am as relatives, friends and curious onlookers tried to get a glimpse of the suspects. The officers were, however, sneaked in using a Toyota Probox, catching everybody unawares, including journalists. The arraignment took five minutes before they were whisked away. Meanwhile, Northeastern regional Commissioner Nicodemus Ndalana told the families of the deceased and the community that thorough investigation will be done to ensure justice is served. "The matter is being handled by several investigative arms of the government, including Ipoa. I want to assure you that you will get justice," Ndalana said. The regional commissioner appealed to the families and the public to remain calm to allow the investigative agencies do their job. Garissa Woman Representative Anab Subow, who was among those who attended the meeting,  said residents and Kenyans are keenly following the case. "As leaders from the area, we are demanding nothing short of justice to the victims. Remember justice delayed is justice denied," Subow said. "Even as we continue to condemn the unfortunate incident, we want to see the officers  prosecuted. We want to caution against any attempt to cover up the incident,” she added. The legislator who comes from the same clan with the two slain men regretted that their lives were cut short by officers who were supposed to protect them and their property. The clan’s Sultan Harun Khalif said they will meet to pull resources together to be channelled to the families of the two victims. The killings sparked demonstrations for the better part of the weekend, with several shops being looted by goons who took advantage of the melee. Edited by EKibii