@Yobramos4 The revenue- sharing formula has nothing to do with the BBI or the Handshake and it is irrational to link them, Kilifi Senator Stewart Madzayo has said.   “All funds  must be equitably shared among all the 47 counties. We will not accept a situation where some certain counties get funds while others miss out,”  Madzayo said at his home in Mtwapa where he met supporters. “It is sad the majority whip, whom we gave the job to the other day, would peg the sharing of revenue among counties to support for BBI.” Kang’ata had said on Thursday it is incomprehensible that ODM senators are opposed to the proposed revenue-sharing formula while still insisting they were backing BBI. He warned the BBI will be at stake if the formula fronted by the Executive is rejected. “We thought BBI was all about ‘one man, one shilling.' That’s the philosophy underpinning the committee's proposal," Kang'ata said. But Madzayo said on Sunday it's not about the BBI, the Handshake or party politics, but the lives of millions of Kenyans who will be seriously affected should their counties get reduced funding. Devolution, he said, was aimed at ensuring the areas traditionally marginalised are able to develop and be at par with developed regions. “How do you say that Turkana, which has been marginalised for decades, and finally has a chance to develop through devolution, now should receive Sh1 billion less - or Mandera should receive Sh2 billion less?” Madzayo asked. He said there must be other good reasons to justify the proposed formula. The third-generation formula proposed by the Commission for Revenue Allocation to share  Sh316.5 billion among all the 47 counties was forwarded to the Senate for deliberation last year. However, there has been a stalemate between senators from counties set to lose  funds and those whose counties are set to gain. The new formula means the counties that have been receiving higher allocatiosn because if their large landmass, high poverty and relatively fewer people will receive less. These include Kilifi county. The new formula has radically shifted from the old one with the parameters for the shareable revenue expanded. The third-generation formula puts emphasis on the basic share index at 20 per cent, county population at 18 per cent, health 17 per cent, poverty 14 per cent, agriculture 10 per cent, land area eight per cent, urban households five per cent, rural access  four per cent, fiscal effort (revenue collection) two per cent and prudent use of public resources two per cent. The Kilifi senator said at no time in the last eight years of devolution has any county received less than in previous years. He said despite the coronavirus pandemic, the counties must get their fair share of the revenue. “There is no day I have been told by my party to vote in any way regarding my county’s allocation. This should not start now,” Madzayo said. He said,“No BBI or Handshake politics should be brought into this process.” He said for the last eight years, President Uuru Kenyatta and ODM chief Raila Odinga have not interfered with the revenue-sharing process and they should continue to stay off. (Edited by V. Graham) 