@alalmaurice Kisumu Central Traders and Waste Management officials have dismissed claims of unfair allocation of stalls at the Sh37 million Chichwa market. This follows claims that genuine traders whose stalls had been demolished were left out. Some traders alleged bribery. But Kisumu Central Traders and Waste Management chairman Anthony Kwache dismissed the allegations as baseless and untrue. He said more than 500 traders have occupied their stalls and doing business after thorough verification. “Let us ignore witchhunt. Such accusations are laughable because the process of verifying genuine traders was biometric,” Kwache said. When the Star visited the market on Wednesday, many stalls were occupied and business was underway. Only a few stalls had yet to be occupied. Kwache said the allegations were being peddled by a few individuals who are part of cartels who were blocked from taking over the control of the facility. He said the cartels are fighting back through misleading information. "We won’t be distracted by a few individuals. Our focus is on genuine traders who depend on selling their goods to earn a living,” he said. The chairman said they are committed to ensuring all traders who were affected by demolition to pave the way for the project get space. Some 1,190 traders were affected. He emphasised that they are working with Governor Anyang' Nyong’o to ensure remaining traders are settled in Uhuru Business Park. City manager Doris Ombara also said the city management used biometric data collection to ensure fairness in allocation. "This is to help only genuine traders get space for business," she said. The park is being constructed at a cost of more than Sh350 million. It has 10,000 stalls, with more than 4,000 ready. A total of 1,190 traders were affected. Nyong’o commissioned Chichwa on May 20, but allocation was delayed to allow his administration to vet traders. The market is a component of the Sh241 million nonmotorised transport (NMT) project, which is meant to ensure pedestrians and cyclists enjoy improved convenience, comfort and safety. It was meant for those who were relocated within the NMT facility corridor. Its stalls accommodate 518 traders and an open-air section for 240 traders. The NMT covers Ang’awa Street, Oginga Odinga Street, and Jomo Kenyatta Avenue. Ombara said construction is 70 per cent complete. It is funded by the World Bank through the State Department of Urban Development under the Kenya Urban Support Programme. Chichwa has essential facilities, including water reticulation, electricity, spacious stalls, security services, controlled trading areas, and an environment for enhanced hours of trading. It also has three ultra-modern ablution blocks. “With this kind of development, we are not only offering our traders dignified environments to operate from but also sustainably structuring our revenue streams,” Nyong’o said. The initiative, he said, targets to give security to small traders and exposing them to financial access offered by the various financial institutions and the government. Ombara said, “It is aimed at easing the congestion of street vendors on the road reserves of most of the central business district roads within Kisumu City.” She said the NMT project offers basic mobility, affordable transport, access to public transport and health benefits. It also targets to improve the convenience, comfort, and safety of those walking and cycling, thereby reducing the demand for travel by private motorists. Other benefits of the project include alleviation of critical traffic challenges facing many cities and zero-emission modes. It also encourages walking and cycling that are critical efforts in reducing the harmful local pollution and greenhouse gas emissions. It will ease congestion by reducing the number of pedestrians, boda boda riders and vendors in the city. Edited by F'Orieny