The Director of Criminal Investigations has no power to institute criminal proceedings unless the DPP gives consent, the court has ruled. This comes as DCI George Kinoti and DPP Noordin Haji have been engulfed in a supremacy battle. Justice George Odungaon Thursday ruled that only the DPP has powers to charge and prosecute. This is after National Water Harvesting Authority boss Geoffrey Sang moved to court challenging his arrest by the DCI. Sang was arrested in April over a suspected dams construction scandal. "A declaration that the 2nd Respondent, the Director of Criminal Investigations has no power and authority to institute criminal proceedings before a Court of law without the prior consent of the Director of Public Prosecutions and any proceedings so commenced are unconstitutional, illegal, unlawful, null and void ab initio," the judge ruled. Judge Odunga faulted the DCI for arresting Sang without a warrant of arrest. "Actions of the DCI proceeding to arrest the Petitioner on the 24th April 2020 without any warrant of arrest and proceed to interrogate or question him without issuing him with any summons or formally informing him of the nature of allegations he is being investigated against contrary to the practice and or precedent adopted by them when conducting investigation of other suspects was discriminatory and violated his right to equality and freedom from discrimination as stipulated at Article 27 of the Constitution of Kenya 2010," the judge held. The court further held that the searching and confiscating of the Sang's mobile phones and laptop to date without a court order or search warrant violates the his right to privacy and property as envisaged at Articles 31 and 40 of the Constitution of Kenya 2010. Sang had told court that his arrest by officers of the DCI, his interrogation and subsequent decision to charge him with the offence of abuse of office was maliciously instigated by individuals at the Authority who are colluding with officials of the DCI to have him take a plea as a public officer so that he steps aside and he be removed from office for their preferred candidate to be appointed. The judge further ruled that Sang can resume his position at the Authority due the nullity of the charges."Accordingly, the said action by the DCI can nolonger be a basis for the removal of the Petitioner from his position," he ruled. Judge Odunga held that based on the material placed before court,there is no basis upon which he found that the removal of Sang or threat of his removal from his position was informed by the subject criminal proceedings.In April, the DCI arrested Sang over graft charges but the DPP did not approve his prosecution but recalled the file for the review. In April, Kinoti accused Haji's office of interference and inordinate delays in their criminal probes. In an internal communication to his team, Director of  Investigations Bureau John Kariuki said they will not send any progress report to Haji’s office from now on. Instead, they will only send complete investigation files. “PUI (Person Under Investigation) files shall not be forwarded to the DPP until the investigations are complete as this tends to interfere with the ongoing investigations, thus hampering and delaying the investigation process unnecessarily,” Kariuki said. The communication meant that the DCI has effectively locked out the DPP from their investigations in what signals the end of the early camaraderie between Haji and Kinoti. Although the law gives prosecutorial powers to the office of the DPP, Kinoti is understood to be planning to prosecute cases himself.