A Rwandan woman is suing for custody of her two children from her husband who allegedly ran off with his mistress who posed as their house girl. The housewife says her husband, who is a senior employee of a top security firm in Burundi, moved out of their matrimonial home in Kahawa Sukari. She said he is living in Karen with his mistress and their two children, aged two and four. The woman said he told her he was moving to a new house in Karen but did not say where. “The defendant left their matrimonial home with the minors as well as his mistress whom he disguised as the house girl while he was plotting their exit,” court documents read. She told the court she fears the children may suffer emotional torture as they are confused as to who their real mother is. “He is living with another woman who is posing as the mother of the minors and therefore aggravating the psychological injury the minors are already incurring,” the mother says. According to court documents, the couple lived together in Kahawa Sukari estate until July 4 when the husband left with the children. She said she has tried unsuccessfully to contact him and has reached out to his family members since he disappeared. The mother says the children are of tender ages and dire need of their mother’s love. She wants the court to give her custody of the children and order her husband not to throw her out of their matrimonial home in Kahawa Sukari. She also wants monthly upkeep of Sh69,000 for shelter, food, clothing and necessities pending the hearing of her petition. Her husband earns $3,000 a month (Sh323,360), plus allowances, while she is a jobless housewife with no source of income she says. “She is jobless and cannot provide for the minors in terms of food, clothing and other necessities while her husband is an employee of a multinational security firm where he earns a lot of money,” court papers read. She claims her husband already has sent real estate valuers to their house with the intention of selling it, without regard for the children. (Edited by V. Graham)    