ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang'ula will this weekend meet elders and opinion leaders in western to discuss the elusive Luhya unity. Mudavadi and Wetang'ula will be in Vihiga and Kakamega counties on Saturday and Sunday, respectively. Last weekend, the two were in Trans Nzoia and Busia, where they were endorsed by a section of elders to spearhead the Luhya unity. As Mudavadi and Wetang'ula started their meetings last weekend, another faction of the Luhya politicians, led by Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, traversed the region to spearhead what they termed "unity and development agenda". Lugari MP Ayub Savula who will host Mudavadi and Wetang'ula in Kakamega on Sunday at a venue to be decided, said, "The only recognised Luhya leaders are Mudavadi and Wetang'ula. The others are brokers and self-seekers out to misuse the Luhya community.” The MP has declared interest in the Kakamega governor seat in 2022 and he has been criss-crossing the county to seek support. Savula is considered a front-runner in the race to replace Oparanya in 2022. On Saturday, the Mudavadi-Wetang'ula group will be hosted by Umuhaya MP Omboko Milemba at a venue yet to be decided. Mudavadi and Wetang'ula have said only a few people will attend the meetings that will last not more than one hour. They will also ensure social distancing as part of the measures to control the spread of the coronavirus. While in Trans Nzoia last weekend, Mudavadi and Wetang'ula said they will do everything to ensure the Luhyas unite, despite schemes to wreck the two parties - Ford Kenya and ANC. Mudavadi said those involved in the schemes would not succeed and would face the wrath of voters come 2022. "We will not allow anyone to force us to do as they want. We will build our parties as democratic entities," the ANC leader said. Mudavadi said they would not be hoodwinked to join Jubilee "which is in its sunset days". He said time is ripe for the Western region to produce the next President. Mudavadi was speaking at the home of Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa during a meeting with elders and opinion leaders. He was with Wetang'ula and more than 10 MPs from the region. Wetang'ula said they would carry on with the work that was started by the late Kijana Wamalwa and the late Masinde Muliro. "We are not playing a game of poker. We are on a journey started by our fathers and everywhere we go, the question has been why are we [Mudavadi and Wetang'ula] not uniting to lead the community." Wetang'ula said the counties in Western receive almost Sh50 billion annually and this money must be accounted for. He said it was ironical that five governors from the region went to see the President "to beg for a bus". “None of them talked about development, including the poor roads in the region. They went to beg for a bus. This is a joke and an insult to our people," Wetang'ula said. "They then tell us that they had a very long successful meetings only to come out with a bus. The President must be happy that these are the only leaders who have nothing much to disturb him." 