Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has announced plans to withdraw from the Raila Odinga-led National Super Alliance, saying the outfit is dead. Wiper's National Executive Committee, the top decision making organ, met in a virtual session on Tuesday and gave the ex-VP the go-ahead to enter into a coalition agreement with President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee Party. The development means Wiper will now divorce from the Opposition coalition as the law does not allow political parties to belong to more than one coalition. Kalonzo’s party will also have to formally write to Registrar of Political Parties Anne Nderitu communicating its decision to leave the coalition and join a new one. For Nasa to collapse, three affiliates must leave the marriage. ODM, the Amani National Congress (ANC) and Ford Kenya remain in the coalition. “The National Executive Council of the Wiper Democratic Movement-Kenya held a virtual meeting via Zoom today (Tuesday) and resolved that the WDM-K moves ahead with speed to enter into a Coalition Agreement with the ruling party, Jubilee, in line with the emerging political realignments in the country,” Wiper secretary general Judith Sijeny said in a statement to newsrooms. She said the decision to ditch Nasa was informed by the realisation  Nasa  had become totally dysfunctional. Sijeny added Wiper will move with speed and convene a National Delegates Conference to endorse the coalition-building decision. “That a special National Delegates Conference be convened as soon as possible to ratify the NEC resolution concerning the envisaged coalition,” the statement said. The coalition comes barely a month after Kalonzo signed a cooperation agreement with Jubilee that allowed the two parties to cooperate within and outside Parliament. The divorce will come with at a huge price as the Kalonzo-led party will be forced to surrender Minority positions it is currently holding in both houses of Parliament. In the National Assembly, Kathiani MP Rober Mbui holds the Deputy Minority keader position courtesy of Nasa. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo is the Minority Whip — a position he will have to relinqquish if the coalition deal materialises. Wiper will now cross to the Majority side and will be qualified for positions. Wiper will be the second political party to enter into a coalition agreement with Jubilee after Baringo Senator Gideon Moi’s Kanu formalised its union in June. As a result, Kanu Senator Samuel Poghisio was given the Majority leader position in the Senate, taking over from Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen. The Tuesday NEC meeting endorsed the disciplinary committee’s recommendation to expel former Machakos Senator Johnsone Muthama from the party. Edited by Henry Makori