A senior political player in the country found himself in an awkward position after police raided his clandestine meeting that was in breach of Covid-19 restrictions spelt out by President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) during his 10th address to the nation on Monday this week. The politician who was holding a meeting with about 100 members was forced to end the session prematurely although some attendees had travelled a long distance to attend his event. Police stormed in 20 minutes after the meeting started, however, they were restrained, watching as the delegation left. Some of them protested they had not been reimbursed for their fare as promised before they set out. *** Is a senior administrator from Western Kenya in bed with known loggers and land grabbers of one of the county’s only surviving forests? Well, Corridors has learnt the administrator is an accomplice in the illegal anti-environmental activity and will not hesitate to jail anyone who tries to raise a finger against the ongoing illicit activities. The administrator is said to be hiding behind the Covid-19 restrictions to arrest any voice questioning his dirty deals. Some people who dared question his unholy alliance with loggers found themselves arrested and charged with breaching the anti-Covid restrictions set by the government. Maybe this is a matter that could interest Environment CS Keriako Tobiko. *** Executive Committee members of a county in Western Kenya seem to be so disappointed by their governor that they now wish the deputy governor was their boss. A little bird whispers to Corridors that the CECs believe the deputy governor is more knowledgeable and up to task of running the county. The deputy governor is said to contribute practical ideas during meetings to discuss development plans of the devolved unit while the county chief sits clueless. Worse, the governor is said to arrive at most meetings late - and drunk. *** A leader of a political party is in dilemma on how to handle one of his long-time close confidants and allies who reportedly took another job at the office of a county boss belonging to a rival political party. He has turned critical of his former friend.  The aide who is now a political adviser has not declared the new engagement to his boss. Corridors has learnt his former boss only came to know of the deal just recently. Those around the politician tell Corridors that the boss suspects that the defector is the source of the constant leaks of his game plan but he still appears to be undecided on his next course of action. 