Uhuru Kenyatta means many things to many people. Psalms 146 teaches us that we should not put our trust in princes, in human beings who cannot save. For when their spirit departs they return to the ground; on that day their plans come to nothing. Uhuru Kenyatta is just a mere man; and perhaps even worse he happens to be a politician. His Excellency once claimed to be a politician who would be a reformer and changemaker; this was his rhetoric. 8 years later, here is what he really is: a president determined to leave an enduring legacy of inclusivity and prosperity, he is also a shrewd and unpredictable politician. Those criticising Uhuru have been content merely to slander him. To claim falsely that he refuses to wake before noon, or that his favourite past time is to plunge Kenya further into debt, or even that he is just a product of Kenya’s political patronage system. Such spurious criticisms have given rise to intellectual laziness among the very people who should be prudently examining Uhuru and giving him constructive feedback. Uhuru has indeed had a history of what appears to be effortless wins, these include blessings by former heads of state, becoming Deputy Prime minister and head of Treasury so early in his career. One is even tempted to look for spiritual or divine explanations to explain his luck. But I posit that Uhuru Kenyatta’s success has not been accidental. Uhuru has been purposeful in his plans for his citizenry. Kenyatta was instrumental in the re-engineering of the Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS), a crucial response to the increasing demands for greater transparency and accountability in the management of the public’s finances. With a decisive policy record, Uhuru Kenyatta has steadily steered Kenya as a lower-middle-income country. He has not only been a foreign policy Rockstar, but he has also spurred foreign direct investment and cemented Kenya’s position as a gateway and regional hub within East and Central Africa. Kenyatta was the first to usher in a new political and economic governance system- through devolution and the creation of 47 county governments. This is why I had to write this article, to tell Kenyans that we have many problems as a country, but that Uhuru Kenyatta may not be the most pressing. Bear with me, because what I think the president needs, is more time, time beyond 2022. For those up in arms at this point, let us be aware of our cognitive dissonance. A state in which we will conveniently forget good arguments made by an opponent just as we forget foolish arguments made by our side. Despite his perceived luck, and supposed shortcomings, we can make the case that the President lost precious time from as soon as he took office. We can assess five realities: One, the President had precious time taken away from him in term one, fighting his case in the International Criminal Court. Uhuru made history – but for all the wrong reasons. By November 2nd, 2013, just a few months into his presidency, Uhuru Kenyatta was the first sitting president to appear at ICC since its formation. But in this, we also saw his ability to be a Pan Africanist bringing states together. Lobbying so that the African Union eventually agreed to “safeguard the constitutional order, stability, and integrity of member states” and granted immunity to government officials during their term in office. In this case, shuttle diplomacy taking time away from the President. Two, between 2014 and 2016 Uhuru was leading a country under siege from terrorism and an intense opposition. The country endured a terrorist attack at Westgate mall that claimed lives on September 21, 2013. We now see that Uhuru inherited the aftermath of the previous regime’s incursions into Somalia with AMISOM and this had devastating effects on the state of Kenya’s national security. Furthermore, there were various attempts by the opposition to delegitimize Uhuru’s regime, led by Raila Odinga. Political tensions were extremely heightened in Kenya. The Gikomba twin terror attack killing 10 (May 16, 2014); teachers going on strike (January, and again in October 2015); the massacre of 152 students in Garissa (April 2015) by Al Shabaab and again in Mandera (October 2016); the assassination of Kabete Member of Parliament George Muchai on Kenyatta Avenue in Nairobi (February 7, 2015); lastly, the retaliatory battle of El Adde that saw about 180 Kenyan troops killed by Al Shabaab in an attack on its AMISOM base in Somalia 60 (January 16, 2016). All this added to a country that by mid-2016, was experiencing a severe drought that had spread to over fifteen counties. By late 2016, constant protests by an opposition, who seemed to oppose everything Uhuru did, just for the sake of opposing it. Every Monday, Kenyans played witness to teargas and riots, and although noble in their attempts to keep government honest. The politicization of issues meant the traction made in development was not given the attention it needed. Three, if it were politics as normal in Kenya, the 2017 election would have been known as the incumbent election. However, it turned out to be the “Black Swan” election. This is because the 2017 election nullification ended up overturning many of the established ways of thinking and doing things. So, Kenyatta again ended up with a second term that began marred with delays. There was a silver lining to all this, in a bid to jumpstart the popularity that Jubilee fully enjoyed amongst Kenyans in previous years, it launched the Madaraka Express – a Standard Gauge Railway that runs from Nairobi to Mombasa in less than five hours. In 2020, Uhuru has plans to connect Mt Kenya to the region through the Nairobi-Nanyuki railway line. Four, the President has had political gatekeepers that have consistently undermined his presidency. Or have been unable to articulate the successes of his development. They can borrow from Donald Rumsfeld, who teaches us that: every action these gatekeepers take should portray the President as the President. He must be perceived as a leader; strong, but fair. The reality is that Uhuru’s administration has not always had sensible answers for the questions that Kenyans are asking. Add to this, a deputy who has deliberately campaigned for his own Presidency instead of supporting the current agenda. Five, Covid-19 has come to show economies like Kenya the fragility of things. The President finds himself balancing between decisions to save lives and ones to protect livelihoods. All the while, committing development efforts towards his Big 4 Agenda. With limited resources, he has the added burden of dealing with a pandemic, versus development. Nonetheless, he is marching forward with cautious optimism. And remember, that not just for Kenya but the rest of the world debt will define our new reality. Politicians in Kenya are generally not well thought of. But like it or not Uhuru Kenyatta has a supernatural power of winning over many hearts and minds. We have Uhuru the politician- whose sudden awakening in 2020 shows the political capital that the president still wields. If we look beyond Uhuru’s great skill in delivering speeches, and charm. We can begin to discern that his big quest is to be the force not only for change but for unity. Looking beyond the ethnic lines that have divided Kenyans for decades. The idea that Uhuru has not performed well, or that he is not a reformer has been the great lie of our time. I am not asking that you or the mainstream media spare Kenyatta any criticism, for these are legitimate avenues for public discourse. I ask only for recognition that often, it is easier to quickly criticize the president than to see the good he has done, and the plans he has for this great nation. What sets Uhuru Kenyatta apart from nearly every other politician that has reached this pinnacle of political life, is that he has a record of solid ideas and accomplishments. Whether he has accomplished them is up for debate, but that he has dared to try, he deserves kudos for that. In the end, we must remember that Kenya will not “end” under President Kenyatta, but it might be a very different place from the one we know now. In his 2020 Madaraka day speech, the President asked us to re-imagine and animate the dreams of our founding fathers. From his father Jomo to Jaramogi Oginga and Tom Mboya. Uhuru is indeed holding us to a higher ideal – he is our philosopher-king. Faith is a Development Economist and Consultant, passionate about Political Economy. Engage with her on Twitter @semasana or email her fndindiri@gmail.com