Anyone who knows what has been happening will confirm that President Uhuru Kenyatta’s development scorecard over the past seven years is fantastic. Most Kenyans are satisfied with Uhuru's rollout of his manifesto, which has been implemented systematically in every part of the country. There are impactful projects in literally every county. They range from roads, land titling, electricity connectivity, health centres, security to capacity building. Also standing out are projects on transport and communications infrastructure, learning institutions and foreign policy development and expansion that have seen Kenya sit on the United Nations Security Council. Uhuru has done amazing and impactful projects. The people who should be talking about these development agendas are members of his political team, comprising the Deputy President, Jubilee members of the National Assembly, senators, governors and members of the county assemblies. They engage with these projects every day. They are best placed to develop and share political narratives on the projects, and do it in ways the mama mboga will understand. Unfortunately, this is not what these political teams have been doing. This is because they have been immersed in the post-Kenyatta political discourse and positioning, rather than in what’s happening right now, leaving the President exposed to allegations that he has not done much. So the President is sending out Cabinet Secretaries, Chief Administrative Secretaries and Principal Secretaries to do what the politicians should have done - explain what the government has done for Wanjiku. It will not be easy because most of these PSs, CASs and  CSs are not politicians. But they should get the message out. Fortunately, many MPs have taken up the challenge of explaining the President’s development agenda in their constituencies and across the country as part of their own political engagement. This, together with the information being carried out by the Cabinet, will get this development story out for Kenyans to understand how President Kenyatta has performed. The Nyeri Town MP spoke to the Star.  - mwaniki fm