Locals of Kojwach in Rachuonyo sub-county in Homa Bay have raised concerns over the status of the Sh700 million construction of the Oyugis Water Supply and Sanitation Project. The project was meant to produce 12,500 cubic meters of water daily to bring to an end the persistent water shortage in Oyugis and Kendu bay areas. The project funded by the government of Kenya and African Development Bank group was commissioned in April last year and was supposed to be completed within a period 18 months. There were concerns from the locals that the site might have been allegedly abandoned by contractors. “When the site was handed over officially to the contractors, we knew that our trouble of access to clean and affordable water would come to an end, but months have passed yet there is nothing tangible on the ground,”said John Owiti, one of the locals. He added that the project was expected to improve the economy of the people in the county through the creation of employment opportunities for the youth which is yet to happen hence calling on the relevant authority to look into the matter. Area MCA for Kojwach area is also expected to the raise the matter at the county assembly. However, Homa Bay Water CEC Dickson Nyawinda said the project is ongoing and there is no work that has been abandoned. Speaking to the Star, Nyawinda noted that the construction works were ongoing and the only thing that was reduced was the mass employment to avoid crowding due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Some people might have thought that nothing is going on because they don't see many people, but we have been monitoring the project keenly and as far as I'm concerned the works are ongoing,” he said. The CEC noted that there were some teething issues that have occasioned some delays which include delays in obtaining exemption taxes,leading to delays in releasing the funds and some machines not bought, but he said the matters have been sorted out. Nyawinda said the project may not be at the stage it was expected to be, but the challenges have been solved. “We want to assure the locals that we are keeping tabs on whatever is going on at the site. This project is important to the people of Oyugis and its envious that will see them have access to clean adequate and affordable water supply,” he added. The works (project) were being implemented by the Rift Valley Water Works Development Authority which has its headquarteres in Nakuru. The contract was awarded to Nanchang Municipal Engineering Development Group/ Nanchang foreign engineering group. According to documents seen by the Star, the scope of work done is only 10 per cent and the contractors have so far been paid a total of Sh 121 million with only a few months left.