The much-awaited report on the controversial Sh63 billion Managed Equipment Services (MES) project will be released in two weeks’ time. Meanwhile, the Senate ad hoc committee that has been investigating the programme for nearly a year, has summoned former Attorney General Githu Muigai, former Health Cabinet Secretary Cleopa Mailu and former Health Principal Secretary Khadija Kassachoon. “We have invited them to appear on July 22 and 23 respectively. They were in the office when these contracts were being signed and varied,” committee chairperson Fatuma Dullo (Isiolo) said. Also set to be queried before the nine-member committee retreats to file the report are former Health PS Fred Segor and M/s IKM Advocates which provided legal advice to the user ministry. Dullo spoke a day after her committee secured 23 additional days to conclude the work and table their report by August 4. Githu was the chief legal adviser at the time while Mailu, now Kenya’s permanent representative to the UN in Geneva, was at the helm of the ministry when the contract's cost was varied from Sh38 billion to Sh63 billion. Senator Dullo, in a procedural motion tabled on Tuesday, said her committee required more time to include its inquiry into the matter as it has been unable to meet key witnesses with crucial information to inform their recommendations. The committee cited the Covid-19 pandemic and in view of the World Health Organization and the Ministry of Health guidelines on social distancing and staying safe for their inability to conclude the work. “We were unable to conclude this report simply because the Covid-19 pandemic came and the conditions that were set during the early stages of the disease. We were unable to continue and we were told to step down,” Dullo said. “We have about five key witnesses in this investigation. One of the key witnesses is an ambassador somewhere out of the country,” she said. She said the ambassador might not be able to come physically and give evidence. "We are trying to fast-track the process because Kenyans are looking forward to this report, the same way the Senate is eager to get this report and the findings.” The senator said they will push what is remaining within the period  requested and table the report on August 4 before the recess. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula, who seconded the motion, said the committee had done a commendable job in its inquisitorial investigation. “These Senators have put in their all in carrying out this complex and thorough investigation into a serious scandal in the Ministry of Health,” the committee vice chair said. “Equally important, we have some witnesses, a company called ‘Esteem’ where we did not finish cross-examining and have to get to the bottom of its engagement in this affair.” M/s Esteem Industries Inc is among the five international companies which supplied theatre equipment worth Sh8.8 billion. M/s General Electric East Africa Services supplied radiology equipment worth Sh23.8 billion, and M/s Shenchem Mindary Biochemical Electronic Company theatre equipment worth Sh4.5 billion. The others are M/s Philips Medical Systems (ICU equipment worth Sh3.6 billions, M/s Sysmex Europe GMBH (laboratory equipment worth Sh2.9 billion) and M/s Bellco Ltd (renal equipment worth Sh2.3 billion) Wetang'ula said their time extension is borne out of the complication that came with the Covid-19 pandemic after the last extension. “Parliament suspended all sittings until a later date, when they allowed sittings and proceedings through electronic means, via Zoom and sometimes in a better placed environment like sitting in this Chamber,” he said.  - mwaniki fm