ODM branch in Kiambu is reading itself for 2022 polls. And to get the numbers, the Orange party has embarked on recruiting more members and restructuring to have candidates in 2022. Speaking in Kiambu town on Thursday during the party executive committee meeting, county party chairman George Wanyugi said they have received requests from potential members who want to join the party. Consequently, he said, they are now putting their house in order so that interested members with political ambitions of any seat within the county can get a platform to compete. “We are a strong party that has in previous elections delivered over 50,000 votes from Kiambu county. There are people who have shown interest in the party, while others want to get a ticket to vie for political office,” Wanyugi said. He added that ODM will field a candidate in Kahawa Wendani ward, which fell vacant following the death of Cyrus Omondi in February this year. Organising secretary lawyer Ndiba Kihara warned that the Jubilee government should not lead the country into a one-party state. “Party coalitions are allowed and if they have a common agenda of the country moving forward, they can unite. We should, however, not kill democracy despite the coalitions,” Ndiba said. Party treasurer Nganga Wanjukira said parties uniting does not mean the idea is to have a one-party state but to have a united country. “ The ODM party has not been sucked into Jubilee. What we have done is to join hands to deliver on Kenyan needs. The party is intact as an independent party and is following it’s manifesto,” Wanjukira said. Margaret Ndehi, a member, said women should be given a chance in leadership and ODM is giving that chance to those interested to vie. “It is the high time for women to take up roles in the political arena. The Constitution advocates affirmative action where women are given a chance, though it has not been implemented. Women should embrace a party that is looking out for them,” Ndehi said. The Orange party, even as it trends in unpopular grounds, has resolved that it will not relent in its efforts to ensure ODM is accepted in the region. Edited by EKibii