Nzoia Sugar are hoping the money  will hit their accounts in the course of the week after belatedly giving the deal between Football Kenya Federation and Betking a clean bill of health. Nzoia are among the three top flight clubs who expressed reservations with the deal during a  virtual club chairmen meeting convened last week to deliberate on the sponsorship which is set to run till 2025. Record champions Gor Mahia and Kakamega Homeboyz did not endorse the pact while Sofapaka gave the meeting a wide berth.Clubs which welcomed the deal valued at Sh 1.2 billion received half a million last Friday. Nzoia chairman, Evance Kadenge, revealed that they hesitated in giving out their verdict and bank details to FKF, thanks to a hitch in opening the undertaking . Clubs were subsequently furnished  with the MoU between FKF and Betking and what clubs will be pocketing and those interested immediately sent their feedback and bank details. Kadenge, however, explained that his office managed to open the document on Saturday, perused it and accepted the deal.He said  after approving it,they served FKF with their bank details and expect money in the course of the week. "We were briefed by Mwendwa last week and as a club, we are okay with the new deal. We know what it means to participate in the league which doesn't have a title sponsor. We, however, delayed in sending our bank details due to a technical hitch," he revealed. Kadenge, who took over the reigns in February replacing Yappets Mokua,  in the meantime, disclosed his plan to beef up the club's technical bench. The sugar millers have been without a head coach from May after unceremoniously parting ways with Collins 'Korea' Omondi who was replaced by Sylvester Mulukurwa albeit on interim basis. Kadenge said the management will seek to ship in an experienced tactician once football resumes. "We will be seeking to beef the technical bench when football resumes. The management will convene a meeting and decide on whom we sign although Mulukurwa is equal to the challenge.We can not hire at the moment as we do not know when the government will allow us back to the stadiums," he added.