At least 21 senators have protested the new proposed formula for revenue allocation among counties and vowed to shoot it down on the floor of the House. The lawmakers are mainly drawn for Northeastern, Eastern, Coast and Nyanza (Kisii) regions. They include Ledama Ole Kina (Narok), Steward Madzayo (Kilifi), Mohamed Faki (Mombasa), Sam Ongeri (Kisii), Enoch Wambua (Kitui), Boy Juma (Kwale), Johannes Mwaruma (Taita Taveta), Okongo Omogeni (Nyamira), Fatuma Dullo (Isiolo), Malik Ekal (Turkana). Addressing a press conference at Parliament Buildings, the leaders said the new formula will disenfranchise and further marginalised their areas. Dubbed "Mithika Linturi" formula, the proposed method will see 18 counties lose up to Sh17 billion if adopted by the Senate and applied in the current financial year. "This is unacceptable. There is no way a formula can make counties lose and others gain. Ideally, there should be no loser or gainer," Mandera Senator Mohamed Mahamud said. Mahamud, who is the former chairman of the Finance and Budge Committee, claimed that the formula is discriminative. "This formula is being determined outside Parliament . The law states that if there is not resolution, then the existing formula is still valid," Mahamud said. He added, "I think something is being done somewhere and won't accept our counties to be marginalised . We have had a long history of marginalisation." Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua said the 'plot' to take away money from some counties amounts to killing devolution. "If we begin to deny certain counties money and others gain, there can be no better way of killing devolution," he said. Isiolo's Fatuma Dullo said that they will oppose the formula, adding retention of the current formula was the best way to resolve the conflict. "My county is losing Sh869 million and our budget is Sh4.9 billion. It means that we are going to close down Isiolo county," she said. Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji, said, "There is nowhere in the Bible or Quran where it is said that you forcefully take away from one person to give to another. We are human beings and we cannot we cannot allow our heads to be chopped. If our money is taken away, it means there is no devolution."