Truck drivers going to Nyandarua have been warned of dire consequences if they do not adhere to the Covid-19 protocols. Governor Francis Kimemia on Wednesday said so far the county has done its best to ensure no Covid-19 case is reported within its borders, noting that these gains could be eroded by those coming from other counties on business missions. Most of the truck drivers go to Nyandarua to get vegetables such as potatoes, cabbages and carrots. “We must continue doing business. We don’t want to put unnecessary obstacles because other regions must get food. But those coming must respect our county,” Kimemia said. The governor said some of the drivers do not wear masks, do not keep social distance and neither do they use sanitiser in their vehicles. “If we find you, a driver, not wearing a mask, not keeping social distance and not sanitising, you will be in trouble,” he said Kimemia said his administration will next week issue a deadline on when players in the sector will be required to produce Covid-19 certificates while entering the county to verify their status. More guidelines will also be issued. He spoke at the Kenya Medical Training College, Ol Kalou campus, after chairing the county Covid–19 emergency committee, ahead of a presidential address next week, when the reopening of the economy is expected to be addressed. Kimemia said Nyandarua has 330 isolation beds distributed across the county. He said 150 of those beds were procured by the county, while 180 have been borrowed from health facilities in the county. The 180 beds have not been in use for the last five years. He said the county opted to put them to use as it waits for a similar number of beds ordered from abroad. He said this decision was reached to avoid buying substandard beds to beat the deadline set by the state when every county should have these beds. He said 13 ICU beds are being completed and ICU equipment worth Sh70 million have been procured. Nine ventilators are also available. Kimemia announced the formation of four multi-sectorial committees that will oversee the reopening of the county economy, pursuant to the guidelines expected to be announced by the President next week. He said Nyandarua has unique challenges, hence these committees will be expected to localise the guidelines to suit the situation. The Business, Commerce and Industry committee will explore how trade will be conducted without escalating Covid–19, while Inter-faith committees will take care of religious and cultural activities. University and Colleges committee will take care of polytechnics and TVETs, while Health committees will continue with its role of ensuring the best health practices and measures. 