Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago has intensified training of staff in handling of Covid-19 patients amid a surge in infection in the county. The county has so far recorded more than 166 cases and leads in the North Rift region. This has been a cause for concern. Other counties in the region that have confirmed cases include Turkana at 22, Nandi eight, Trans Nzoia has six, and Elgeyo Marakwet one. West Pokot, Samburu and Baringo, which are part of the North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb), are among the four counties yet to record any case. “We are insisting on people fully adhering to control measures but at the same time we are training our staff to ensure they are prepared to handle the situation within all the set protocols,” Mandago said. Uasin Gishu Health executive Evelyne Rotich said they were training all healthcare workers in Covid-19 protocols, including those regarding burials. So far, more than 500 healthcare workers have been trained. She said the county government is fully prepared to professionally handle Covid-19 cases in strict adherence to all the protocols put in place by the Ministry of Health. “In recognition of the key role health workers play in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic, the county, through the Department of Health, has put in place measures to ensure they are protected, even as they attend to locals seeking various medical services," she said. One of the key measures put in place is ensuring health workers in all facilities have PPE - face masks, gloves, face shield, and overall and gumboots for those directly handling Covid-19 patients and contacts. “All the health workers have also been taken through rigorous training in how to identify and handle suspected Covid-19 cases,” Rotich said. Apart from training and providing PPE, the county had also ensured all health facilities have handwashing points, thermal guns for temperature testing, as well as ensuring social distancing for those visiting facilities. “In terms of handling positive cases, as a county we have surpassed the 300 isolation beds required by the government for each devolved units as we are now at 324 beds,” Rotich said. Mandago has been inspecting facilities in Eldoret and other urban centres to ensure full adherence to control protocols by residents.