Kenya is approaching the peak for coronavirus infection, with a surge in positive cases expected this month into August and September. The Ministry of Health Wednesday reported 307 new cases; the highest ever recorded in a day since the first case on March 13. “Some of our models which have been geared towards the information that we have gathered during this pandemic tend to be indicating that we may be approaching a peak sometime in July; August, September may be our peak,” Health CAS Rashid Aman said. “The numbers we are seeing increasing are also indicating to us that the trajectory is changing. It looks like going forward, we are likely to see more samples turning positive,” Aman added. The CAS noted that the number of samples tested also influences the number of positives recorded. “But above that it is a fact that our numbers are increasing and we are approaching the peak. You can see that between June and now our number have really increased much more than they were before. So we seem to be on the rise on the curve.” He said that the country will not rely on models but real data. Models will help to prepare the country’s capacities, he said. “It is better for us to work with models that over-exaggerate for us and be over-prepared for our response than be underprepared. Any improper response means many more people suffering and many more people dying and we would not want to be in that place,” the CAS added. Health DG Patrick Amoth said the country has more than 150,000 test kits in store. The testing capacity in the next three weeks is assured, he said. “As we approach the peak you will see an increase in cases reported and until we reach that level it is very difficult to predict on when that is going to occur. “Of course based on modelling, we are saying August, September but nobody knows for sure because nature sometimes does not obey science,” Amoth said. The ministry has so far rolled out the home-based care to free the healthcare facilities in preparation for the surge in numbers. All 47 counties have been directed to set up at least a 300-bed capacity isolation facilities. Amoth said the number of people released for the-home based care is expected to increase going forward. So far, 600 people have been released for the home-based care.  Some 120 people have been discharged from the programme. None has died. Residents of informal settlements are not expected to be considered for the programme. Amoth said home-based care applies more to those in the middle class and the upper middle class because of the guidelines in place. “It is also labour-intensive because you require somebody to be able to visit these people to check their temperature, ask for the symptoms and another challenge is delayed reporting especially if you have to get data from counties,” Amoth said. From yesterday’s data, one more patient died, bringing the total fatalities to 148. Fifty more patients were discharged from various health facilities after successfully undergoing treatment. The total recoveries are 2,089. The 307 new cases comprised 289 Kenyans and 18 foreigners, aged between one year and 81 years.  Men were 215 and women 92. Nairobi accounted for the highest number with 154 cases, followed by Mombasa with 38 cases. Machakos had 33, Kiambu and Narok 20 cases each, while Kajiado had 14, Busia 10, Kericho four, Makueni and Nakuru five cases each, and Kilifi, Kisumu, Kitui and Uasin Gishu had one case each. (edited by o. owino)