Kenyan and UK researchers have developed a new system that accurately predicts drought up to two months ahead. The new system studies vegetation patterns to provide an accuracy rate of 87 per cent at the highest. The team from the National Drought Management Authority and the University of Sussex said this would help pastoralists, the government and humanitarian groups prepare response before the drought begins. For instance, farmers could be asked to sell their cattle or move to other areas long before the drought comes. The NDMA already uses satellite imaging to monitor pastures and determine the health of the vegetation using a metric known as the Vegetation Condition Index. "These are conveyed to the decision makers in arid and semi-arid regions of Kenya through drought early warning systems," said NDMA official John Mwangi. However, these systems mostly allow organisations and communities to intervene when the impacts of a drought have already occurred. At that point, such extreme weather would already have had a devastating effect on the livelihoods of local people. The new system would also complement the work of meteorologists who study weather patterns to predict droughts. The University of Sussex said in a statement the new system, called Astrocast,  allows humanitarian agencies and drought risk managers to deal with the impacts of extreme weather by forecasting changes before they occur. In a research paper published in Remote Sensing of the Environment journal, the team said they used techniques from astronomy, processing data directly from space telescopes before using advanced statistical methods to forecast extreme weather. Dr Pedram Rowhani, co-founder of Astrocast, said, “In many cases, the first signs of a drought can be seen on natural vegetation, which can be monitored from space." NDMA already provides monthly drought bulletins for every county, which states detected changes in the vegetation and are used to make decisions about whether to declare a drought alert. But with the new forecasts, these bulletins could also include a prediction of what the vegetation is likely to be in a few weeks’ time, giving farmers and pastoralists valuable time to prepare. Seb Oliver, co-founder of Astrocast, said, “We imagine that our reports might be used to define a new warning flag allowing county leaders to make decisions earlier and so prepare better. But this information could also be used by humanitarian organisations like the Kenya Red Cross as well as other organisations like the Kenya Met Department. “Earlier preparation is well known to be much more effective than reactive response.” Edited by Henry Makori