Thirty goats and sheep that were stolen on July 23 from Takaywa village in Kasei ward of West Pokot have been recovered as Turkana and Pokot communities intensified peace efforts. Speaking after handing the animals back to the owners, West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo and his Turkana counterpart Josphat Nanok said they will jealously guard their peaceful coexistence. They said they will not allow a few people to breach the peace they have enjoyed for the past three years. "We are asking security apparatus from this region to ensure the few elements who want to disturb the peace are arrested and prosecuted,” Lonyangapuo said. Nanok said that during the previous peace caravans, they cried to God to help them end the bloodshed and for the past years no gunshot has been heard in the region. “We have been sleeping in peace and we will not allow a few criminals to disrupt it. Security apparatus should take necessary action,” he said. Nanok asked politicians to unite and ensure permanent peace in the region. “Let’s put our political differences aside and work together. When there is a peace meeting, regardless of the venue, please, let's attend to affirm to residents that we are speaking in one language of peace,” he said, adding that they should do the best they can and that which they are mandated to do. "What is above our limit let’s leave to the government to find the solution. Like boundary issues, we can’t deal with them. That's the work of national government." The leaders thanked elders from both sides for ensuring the stolen animals are returned. Lonyangapuo also asked elders to traverse the North Rift region to help elders from other areas in fostering peace. “We shall organise you meet with elders from Tiaty and sensitise them on how you have managed to bring peace in this region,” he said. “We want to end cattle rustling in the North Rift region and we are going to use elders to help us in ensuring peace in Baringo county as we want to work as a bloc." Edited by F'Orieny