A Senate watchdog committee on Thursday put Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya on the spot over his administration’s failure to disburse Sh269 million to poor mothers. Oparanya was at pains to explain to the County Public Accounts and Investments Committee why thousands of poor mothers had been locked out of the financial support programme. The governor had in 2013 initiated the Linda Afya ya Mama na Mtoto programme, popularly referred to as Oparanya Care  with the objective of reducing child malnutrition and new born mortality. Mothers needing financial support were to be identified after attending ante-natal clinics for at least four times. The support was to be provided in at least six stages at the rate of Sh2,000 in each stage until the child is 18 months old. Oparanya, who is the chairman of the Council of Governors, cited financial constraints and transition in the management of the programme at the time for failure to remit the money. “The transition of the county government in March 2018 and change of the programme manager in June 2018 occasioned the delay,” the governor said. The money was later processed and dispatched in batches – Sh22.98 million in July and September 2018 and Sh90.43 million at the end of June 2019. The response did not satisfy the committee members who demanded to know the sustainability of the programme. “At the conception time of this project, was adequate feasibility study done to ensure the sustainability of this programme financially?” Narok Senator Ledama Olekina asked. The governor told the committee chaired by Kisii Senator Sam Ongeri that a comprehensive feasibility study was carried out by Unicef. Olekina further probed: “Was this programme budgeted for, or it was relying on donors who once they left, the programme collapsed?" The governor said while initially the county committed between Sh80 million and Sh90 million, the assembly legislated that three per cent of the county's total budget translating into Sh120 million would go to the programme. Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala demanded to know how efficient the programme was. "The legislation might be there. The sustainability might be guaranteed but late disbursements will still remain. So, we are supposed to look at the efficiency of the programme," Malala said. Unicef, the main sponsor of the programme, has redesigned the programme and committed to paying community health workers to help in enrolment of the mothers. According to former Auditor General Edward Ouko, not a single mother was enrolled in the programme during the year. Ouko's 2017-18 report on the expenditures of the Kakamega County Executive shows that as at June 30, 2018, the non-remittances to 30,716 mothers stood at Sh269,331,840. “No verifiable reason has been provided for non-payment of the above amounts although the programme was still holding Sh22,986,084 in bank as at June 30, 2018,” the report said in part. During the year under review, the programme did not enroll any new mothers, implying that those eligible for enrolment missed out. While it was explained that the non-enrolment was due to budget constraints, no indication has been given of the measures made to ensure the programme operates as envisaged. “Consequently, the objectives of reducing child malnutrition and new-born mortality may not be achieved,” it concluded. Oparanya said mothers were not enrolled during the year due to lack of funds to facilitate community health workers who were to visit their homes to validate the information given during the listing. “This process could not be conducted due to logistical issues, since the community health volunteers need facilitation to be able to conduct the home visits and the programme has limited funding to conduct the same,” he said. The ODM deputy party leader was also questioned why his administration transferred to the county assembly without the same being captured in the budget. “However, no reason or authority approving the excess transfer of Sh10.05 million was provided for audit review,” according to the report. The governor said that the money was disbursement to support payment of salaries in the county assembly and the same was recovered the following financial year. But the senators rejected the explanation and threatened to surcharge him and the officers who sanctioned the illegal transfer of the cash. Oparanya was also at pains justifying why the government he leads has not developed a complete assets register it inherited from the defunct local authority as well the property his administration has acquired since 2013. He said all county governments have lists of assets inherited except those still being held by the national government. However, the assets are not valued. For his county, he needs Sh500 million to hire private valuers to do the exercise. The state valuers they relied on to do the work are too few, he said.  - mwaniki fm