Former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero has obtained orders stopping his prosecution in the Sh58 million graft case. High Court Judge John Onyiego suspended the proceedings after Kidero argued that the fresh charges leveled against him were defective. Kidero, George Wainaina, John Kariuki, Paul Mutungi, Manasseh Kepha, Philomena Nzuki and ten others were  to plead afresh on Monday to offences said to have been committed in 2014. It is alleged that they conspired to defraud the Nairobi City County of Sh58 million. In his application before the High court, Kidero said the trial court failed to determine the question of the defective charges. He said magistrate Douglas Ogoti summarily dismissed the objection on the basis that it was incompetent because of an earlier ruling delivered by the court on the same. But Kidero insists the issue of defective fresh charges had not  arisen at the time. “I have a right by law to challenge any defective and unfair charges that would undermine or contravene my rights and fundamental freedoms including the right to a fair hearing and equal protection of the law,” he says. Kidero through lawyer Nelson Havi accuses Ogoti of having a predetermined mind on the issues at hand. “The trial court cannot limit or stop an accused person from raising valid and legitimate objections in the course of trial no matter how many times new issues arise,” he said. Justice Onyiego directed that the case be heard on July 22. On December 4 last year, Ogoti issued a ruling directing the prosecution to amend the charges facing Kidero and others in the Sh58 million case. Ogoti however declined to consolidate Kidero’s file with that of Nyakach MP Joshua Aduma who was charged with corruptly authorizing payment of Sh10 million to a law firm of a dead lawyer eight years ago. The Director of Public Prosecutions wanted the two cases consolidated and heard together but the court disallowed the application. In January, Kidero declined to plead afresh to charges of conspiring to defraud the county government of Sh58 million. Earlier, he had pleaded not guilty. His lawyer Julie Soweto said the prosecution was yet to serve them with the fresh charge sheet. “Kidero should not be subjected to a fresh plea. We have not even seen the charge sheets. Ordinarily, the prosecution presents the defence with the charge sheets so we can know which position to take," the lawyer said. On December 4 last year, magistrate Douglas Ogoti directed the prosecution to amend the charges facing Kidero and others in the Sh58 million case. 