Hundreds of grieving and furious mourners have threatened to stage massive protests if the government does not track down and arrest Pokot bandits in two weeks. They and their leaders spoke at the funeral of Lemari Maitano, who was shot on July 10 while herding animals, on Saturday.   He was shot in the thigh on Friday before bandits made off with 102 head of cattle, driving them towards Paka Hills,Silale, Naudo and Riongo villages bordering Tiaty subcounty. Mourners threatened to stage the 'mother of all protests' against the government for failing to end the violence. They issued a two-week ultimatum for the government to capture bandits whom they said are well known — otherwise, the protest is on. They also demanded the return of stolen animals. "Otherwise, we shall mobilise a mother of all protests against the government, Ole’Supen Leshaan said on Tuesday. “It is so painful to bury such a promising young man as a result of premature death caused by fellow humans,” Mukutani MCA Renson Barkei said. Ilchamus MCA Joseph Barsalach said, “Enough is enough, the government must help stop this menace or allow people to arm themselves against their enemies.” He said the notorious bandits are well known to residents, chiefs and police officers down to their remote villages but nobody has bothered to pursue them. “Once stock rustlers cross over and disappear to a certain village, the residents of that locality should be forced to surrender an equal number of animals to compensate the disadvantaged victims,” Leshaan said. He accused government agencies of failing to end banditry and cattle rustling that has dominated parts of the county since 2005. “Since then we have lost hundreds of people, numerous of them maimed, thousands displaced and huge number of animals stolen on the watch of the security officers” he said. Leshaan said tension remains high in parts of Baringo North and South subcounties as bandits plan attacks while the government is silent. In April, Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya issued a shoot-to-kill order against the bandits and hundreds of officers were deployed immediately to execute the order. “But since then, the officers have still kept idle at Chemoling’ot and Ng’inyany in Tiaty subcounty, while our innocent people are left to battle with the armed Pokot bandits day and night,” Leshaan said. But county commissioner Henry Wafula said security officers are already taking charge and they so far have recovered all the stolen animals. “I urge the people to remain calm and allow the government to carry out its mandate because we are always committed to protecting people’s lives and their property,” Wafula said. Munuve said enough police officers have been deployed to contain the situation on the ground. “We have already marked the hideouts of the bandits and we shall soon smoke them out” he said. Elsewhere, more than 800 Tugen residents have fled their homes in Kagir, Yatya, Chemoe, Barketiew and Kosile since last month. They are putting up at IDP camps in the bush in Rormoch, Karimo, Rondinin, Chapin, Barbarchuch, Sibilo, Chebarsiat, Akoroyan and Chepkowel. Chemoe resident Richard Chepchomei said the bandits are still threatening to follow them to their camps “to shoot and steal our animals”. Residents are urging the government to consider rearming the National Police Reservists from the affected villages to repulse bandits and recover stolen animals. Baringo South MP Charles Kamuren said the attacks have left his people living in fear. "The government should do something immediately to see to it that our people are safe,” he said. Kamruen and his Baringo North counterpart William Cheptumo are appealing to the government to urgently rearm the NPRs and compensate the victims. (Edited by V. Graham)