A Nairobi Court on Friday ordered a man who assaulted his wife with blows to pick his clothes and vacate their rented house. Michael Osinde was charged before Makadara senior principal magistrate Steve Jalang'o with assaulting Caroline Wanjiru on May, 18 at South B estate in Nairobi. Wanjiru who works with an insurance company had gone to meet a customer along Jogoo Road and upon return, Osinde is said to have insulted with accusations of cheating. The next  day Osinde invited relatives so that they could solve their longstanding matrimonial issues. During the meeting, Osinde is said to have tried hitting Wanjiru with a bottle before he was restrained by his brother. He however managed to hit her with a blow on the head. Wanjiru reported the matter to Industrial Area police station and Osinde was arrested. Osinde denied the charges and told court that the fight was all about property. "Your honour, the real issue here is the property. My wife wants to take all our properties and she is in the process of initiating a divorce. She has already hidden our car which I have been using to run our business and in supporting the family," Osinde said. He said he hasn't been able to work after their car was hidden and their rent arrears have accumulated. Osinde also accused his wife of cheating on him. Wanjiku however said the husband has been violent man for all the ten years they have lived together. "It is not the first time he is assaulting me. He has been a violent and an abusive husband for all the years we have lived together," Wanjiku said. Wanjiku said they have three children and requested for a restrictive order that bars Osinde from coming close to her and their children. She also asked court to issue an order for the car in question to be sold and the proceeds equally shared. Jalang'o granted Osinde a bail of Sh20,000 and asked the investigating officer in to escort him to their house to pick his belongings. The hearing of the matter begins on September 14. Edited by P.O