Former Sports CS Rashid Echesa won against the state for the second time in a row after the High Court dismissed an appeal by the DPP. Last month Echesa won an application for the release of his vehicle and two firearms that had been detained by the police. Senior principal magistrate Kenneth Cheruiyot ordered the DCI to give Echesa his car and guns but the DPP rushed to the High Court to reverse the order. However, Justice Luka Kimaru dismissed the appeal by the DPP ruling that it lacked merit. “The application by DPP for revision of the said order issued by the magistrate therefore lacks merit and is hereby dismissed,” he ruled. Judge Kimaru said upon evaluating the facts of the application, the magistrate followed the law when he ordered the police to release the property to Echesa. “It was clear to the court that the detention of the firearms and the vehicle is not connected with the pending criminal case before the trial court,” the court said. The judge said the continued detention of the firearms by the police was in contempt of the orders issued by the Kakamega court and the DPP did not dispute the existence of that order. “The DPP or the police can make appropriate application before that court to set aside or review the order but so long as that order is still in force, the police have no option but to comply with the same and release the firearms to the Echesa,” he ruled. Justice Kimaru held that there was no legal justification for the continued detention of the vehicle and the same should therefore be returned to Echesa without further ado. The court noted that Echesa had produced an affidavit from the person he bought the car from and she confirmed that Echesa bought the car from her and has paid in full. The DPP sought to reverse the order on the grounds that the car was being detained pending the trial of the criminal case and further investigations. According to the investigator, the police suspect the motor vehicle was unlawfully acquired, hence the justification for its continued detention. They further told court that they were detaining the firearms while they await the Firearm Licensing Bureau to verify the particulars before releasing them. However, Echesa had strongly opposed the appeal and told court that the vehicle and guns have no connection with the charges that he is facing before the trial court. He told the court that the High Court in Kakamega had issued orders restraining the police from seizing his firearms pending hearing of his case in that court. Echesa also argued that the Range Rover was not seized when he was arrested but it was taken from his home while he was arrested in the CBD. The ex-CS was charged on February 17 with several counts of fraud in relation to a Sh39.5 billion fake arms deal. Edited by Henry Makori