The Executive and the Judiciary may be headed for yet another tiff if the latter sides with the Law Society of Kenya over the listing of 24 new senior counsel. On Monday, President Uhuru Kenyatta conferred senior counsel status on 24 lawyers, prompting the LSK to ask Chief Justice David Maraga not to list them in the roll of senior counsel, citing illegalities in their nomination. Already, the CJ is on a collision course with the President over the appointment of 41 judges recommended by the Judicial Service Commission. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua, Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo and former Mombasa Mayor Ali Taib are among those conferred the title. Also listed are family lawyer Judy Thongori, Kioko Kilukumi, Public Prosecutions secretary Dorcas Oduor, Fred Ngatia, Mohamed Nyaoga, former public prosecutor Philip Murgor, Albert Mumma, Beutta Siganga and Kiragu Kimani. The others are Parkash Nagpal, Fackson Kagwe, Pravin Bowry, Charles Waweru Gatonye, Rautta Athiambo, Zehrabanu Janmohammed, Wilfred Nderitu, John Chaga,  Patricia Nyaundi, Abdikadir Mohamed and John Chigiti. Senior counsel enjoy several privileges, among them being allocated special seats in court, wearing special robes and preference in judicial matters. When the senior lawyers appear before a tribunal, they wear sleeved waistcoats similar to those adorned by Court of Appeal judges. They also have a special space in time slots and their matters are heard and dispensed with first. Currently, Kenya has about 20 lawyers with the title Senior Counsel. LSK president Nelson Havi told the Star on Tuesday that the LSK committee that recommended that the conferment did not act in accordance with the law. He argued that the CJ, said to be a conveyor belt in the process, relayed the wrong information to the President. Havi added that the LSK council cancelled the conferment and thus the “CJ was holding a document that was worthless.” The 24 lawyers had challenged the council's decision in court and the matter referred for mediation. The process is yet to be finalised. The LSK grounds are that the Attorney General did not attend any of the conferment committee sittings yet he is a mandatory member. Havi claimed that one member of the Senior Counsel bar, Patricia Kameri-Mbote,  did not attend any of the committee meetings yet she was to represent LSK. Further, LSK's former president Allen Gichuhi did not sit in any of the committee deliberations as required by the Act defining the conferment. According to Havi, his predecessor nominated to the committee a representative who did not have 10-year experience. The nominee did not sit in any of the meetings. “The conferment was made by judges of the High Court, Court of Appeal, and Supreme Court. Are judges to tell us who qualifies to be senior counsel?” he said. Maraga’s communications team held the same position, saying the process of conferring senior counsel title has nothing to do with the Judiciary. “The conferment is done by the President, the names are gazetted and the matter ends there. It has nothing to do with the Chief Justice.” A number of lawyers dismissed LSK’s assertions saying there is nothing left for the Chief Justice to do in the process. A proposed senior counsel who asked not be named asked: “Which section allows the LSK to ask the CJ not to act on the President’s report?” Gichuhi said he did not attend the committee sittings since he was among the candidates bidding for the conferment. He told the Star that the committee that settled on the 24 lawyers is not part of LSK, hence independent. “The council of LSK has no business interfering with the committee’s functions. The committee is independent.” According to Gichuhi, once the list is forwarded to the Chief Justice by the committee and the latter sends the same to the President, the final say rests with the head of state. “The President has the final say. The Chief Justice has no business to be told what he is being asked to do. He receives the list and forwards to the President,” he said. The Advocates Act, which outlines the conferment, states the President, upon receipt of the names submitted to him, shall grant a letter of conferment to each person whose name is contained in the list. The issue is likely to feature during the LSK annual general meeting slated for Thursday where the society is supposed to elect its two new representatives to the conferment committee.  - mwaniki fm