Gusii community members in Nairobi and Mombasa should delay travelling upcountry to protect their ageing parents from Covid-19, Kisii Governor James Ongwae has said. Medics warn that the coronavirus can be devastating to those who are immune-suppressed such as the old and Ongwae says city dwellers should consider that before travel. Ongwae said, however, that his administration has put all measures in place, including a boost in bed capacity in anticipation of the increase in cases. The governor’s concern came a day after the county recorded six new cases on Sunday, bringing county the total to 12. “It is unfortunate that our county has recorded six new cases. The cases might increase if our people are not going to be extra careful when going on with daily duties,” he said. He urged residents to strictly adhere to the directives issued by the Ministry of Health to avoid further spread of the coronavirus. “It is saddening that some residents have gone back to their normal lives. They should understand that the guidelines are not punishing anybody but are aimed at combating the disease,” Ongwae told the Star on the phone. Social and physical distance, handwashing and sanitisation should be enhanced to fight the disease, the county chief said. He said the county has set aside a 310-bed isolation centre, including a 15-ventilator unit and a separate centre with 60 beds at the Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital. “More isolation centres have been prepared at Getembe, Kiamwasi, Kiogoro and Kenyerere to avert any crisis,” the governor said. The county has also set aside 100 rooms and 300 beds at Kenya Medical Training College and Kisii High School respectively for quarantine purposes. “Those who will be found breaking the guidelines will be quarantined for 14 days. It is good for everyone to be responsible,” Ongwae said. He said the oxygen production plant at Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital will boost care for critical Covid-19 patients and those suffering from other ailments. (edited by o. owino)