Kenya on Friday recorded 389 new cases of Covid-19, raising the country's total confirmed cases to 12, 062, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has confirmed. This is out of 3, 545 samples that were tested in the last 24 hours as the cumulative samples tested so far rose to 233, 641. Of the cases 385 are Kenyans while four are foreigners. 260 of the cases are male while 129 are female as the trend of men recording the highest number of infections continue. The youngest of the new cases is a five-month-old infant while the oldest is 85 years old. 345 people have been discharged, 134 from hospitals and 211 from home based care, bringing the number to 3,983. "So far no one has died from the virus from the home based care program," Director General Patrick Amoth said. The CS said the country has recorded five more deaths in the last 24 hours, four of which were cases with underlying health conditions. The total number of fatalities now stands at 222. Kagwe mentioned that the government is focusing on targeted mass testing. "Home based care is the best way for us to manage the virus  and we want to roll-out training even to family members for people to be managed better by their families,"  the CS said. The 389 cases are distributed in Nairobi with 270, Kiambu 26, Nakuru 15, Makueni 14, Mombasa 11, Busia and Machakos with nine cases each, Kajiado six, Kisumu four, Kericho and Kilifi  three cases each. Other cases are Turkana, Mandera and Uasin Gishu  with two cases each while Bungoma, Garissa, Kakamega, Kwale, Taita Taveta, Tharaka Nithi and Trans Nzoia with one case each. In Nairobi, cases are in Westlands with 38 cases, Langata 35, Starehe 30, Embakasi East 24, Dagoretti North 20, Kibra 19, Makadara 16, Embakasi South, Kasarani and Roysambu 14, cases each, Kamukunji 12, Embakasi Central and Ruaraka with eight cases each while Embakasi North has seven cases and Mathare has two cases. Kiambu has 26 cases in Kikuyu with eight cases, Kiambaa seven, Thika five, Ruiru three, Lari two and Kiambu Town with one case. In Nakuru, the 15 cases are in Nakuru west 15 and Naivasha has six cases. Makueni, has 14 cases in Kibwezi East  with seven cases, Kibwezi West four and Makueni with three cases. In Mombasa, the 11 cases are in Mvita six, Changamwe two, Jomvu, Kisauni and Mombasa Old Town have one case each. Busia has nine cases in Teso North four, Matayos three and Teso South two. As for Machakos, it has nine cases in Athi River. Kajiado has six cases in Kajiado East and Kajiado North with two cases each, Kajiado central and Loitokitok with one case each. All the four cases in Kisumu are from Kisumu Central and all the three cases in Kisumu are from Kisumu Central. The three cases in Kilifi are from Rabai. Turkana has two cases in Turkana West, Mandera has two cases in Mandera East. In Uasin Gishu two cases are in Ainabkoi and Turbo has one case. Bungoma has one case in Kimilili, while in Garissa the one case is in Fafi. Kakamega on the other hand has one case in Mumias West. Kwale has one case in LungaLunga, Taita Taveta with one case in Taveta, Tharaka Nithi one case in Chuka, Trans Nzoia one case in Kiminini. Tharaka Nithi is the latest county to report a Covid-19 case bringing to 43 the total number of counties with cases.