The government is set to roll out a juvenile justice information management system to track children cases from the beginning to their logical conclusion. This was revealed in the National Prevention Plan on Violence against Children in Kenya 2019-23, which seeks to shrink childhood violence by 40 per cent by 2024. “It will ensure child survivors and child perpetrators of violence receive comprehensive child-friendly protection and response services in the justice sector,” the State Department for Social Protection says. The Institute of Child Psychology notes that violence victims and perpetrators are traumatised and do not feel safe going through the judicial train. “Trauma leaves children scared and psychologists ought to step in early to walk children through the court system that could take long,” Tania Johnson, a psychologist and co-founder of the institute, said. Before 2006, minor offences involving children would be concluded within six months, while capital offences such as murder and robbery with violence would be concluded within a year. However, this changed when the Child Offender Rules that set time limits for which trials involving children should be completed was declared unconstitutional by the Court of Appeal. “The children spend months, or even years, having to make court appearances, missing school and carrying with them social stigma. In fact, many of them in remand homes miss out on just being children,” Johnson said. Justice Martha Koome, the chairperson of the National Council for the Administration of Justice special task force on children's matters, said counselling is the missing link in the child justice system. “We are grappling with how to incorporate counselling in the justice system,” Koome said. Similarly, a webinar titled ‘Justice through the eyes of a child,’ asserted that children are less expressive and a pool of child therapists would help bring justice to child victims. The use of play therapy, art, sand and narrative therapies in the Judiciary was projected to win the trust of children and make them more expressive. “Knowledge and skills of childhood trauma are vital for all professionals working with children,” Johnson said. The department will also increase the capacities of police officers and local administrators to respond appropriately to cases of violence against children. Edited by A.N