Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago has revived plans to complete his flagship projects that stalled mainly due to the Covid-19 pandemic and delayed funding from the Treasury. The projects mainly in agriculture, water and health will cost more than Sh3 billion. Mandago wants them completed within two years before his exit after completing two terms in office. Two key health projects are the completion of the Ziwa and Burnt Forest Level 5 hospitals. The two health facilities will cost Sh750 million and Sh450 million  respectively to complete. County Health executive Everlyne Rotich on Monday inspected the progress of construction works for the Ziwa Level 5 Referral Hospital in Soy subcounty. "The hospital will address the demand for quality healthcare and help attain President Uhuru Kenyatta's Big Four agenda on Universal Health Coverage," Rotich said. The 350-bed capacity facility will provide specialised inpatient and outpatient services, including  paediatrics, surgery and maternity. The Health department is identifying and training specialised personnel to be employed. It is expected to be completed in less than two years. Expansion works are to begin on Burnt Forest Hospital. The governor is moving to complete the Sh500 million Moisoy Maize Milling plant developed through a union of cooperative societies. “We hope the milling plant will be completed by the end of this year so farmers can process their maize for value addition and earn more," Mandago said. Equipment for the plant was delivered last week. In August last year, Mandago had promised he'd ensure all the Sh10 billion projects he initiated are completed before the end of his second term. In the water sector, the administration has invested more than Sh700 million in machinery for drilling water and building dams. More than 30 dams have been rehabilitated and tens of boreholes have been dug for residents who have no piped water. A growing list of politicians want to succeed Mandago in 2022. They include Soy MP Caleb Kostany, Jonathan Bii and businessman Bundotich Buzeki, who ran unsuccessfully against Mandago in 2017. (Edited by V. Graham)