There was shock in Karia village, Nyeri, after four people died in what is believed to be cases of homicide and suicide. Three of the cases have been linked to homicide while one was attributed to suicide. The first incident involved a 36-year-old farmhand employed by a retired clergyman who allegedly killed two women in a suspected love triangle before committing suicide by hanging himself. The body of one of the woman is yet to be identified was discovered in Eric Muriithi’s kitchen. Muriithi is the farmhand and the suspect in the murder. The body was discovered at around 6am while that of the other woman Susan Mukami, 26, was found in a coffee farm. Mukami’s six month-old boy was found alive beside her body. He was taken to Nyeri County Referral Hospital for medical checkup after spending the night in the cold. He had been attacked by safari ants. The cries of the baby attracted a passerby who stumbled upon Mukami's body after getting into the farm to find out what was happening. “Her body (Mukami’s) had a deep cut on the neck while that of the second lady had a similar cut on the neck and on the back,” a resident said. Rev. Samuel Theuri who was also Muriithi's employer said they had a conversation with the farmhand the previous day on matters pertaining to his work but he did not notice anything abnormal with him. “I was shocked to learn of the horrific incident today (Wednesday) morning when I went to check whether Muriithi had milked and fed cows,” Theuri said. He said he went to check on him after noticing regular mooing by cows which had not been milked. The retired priest, however, said he could not get any response from his farmhand. He proceeded to his kitchen which was open where he found the body of a woman lying facing down in a pool of blood. He called police. A search for the farmhand started which led them into an avocado tree where he was found hanging. The priest said he was not aware that Muriithi was in a relationship or married to any woman as he has never seen him visited by women in the compound in the last one year. Less than a kilometer from the area, was another incident where an elderly man is said to have been killed by his nephew following a confrontation over the elderly funds kitty. According to Nyeri Central deputy county commissioner Joseph Mwangi, Elija Mugo, 82, had deep panga cuts on his head. The cuts were inflicted by his 36-year-old nephew Duncan Kanini. The scuffle started after the old man confronted the suspect who is alleged to have stolen his monthly stipend. Mugo allegedly attacked Kanini with a panga but the young man who was also injured overpowered the the granny and killed him, Mwangi said.  Edited by P.O