Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has dropped three county executives in a reshuffle "to improve service delivery". Those dropped are Barasa Wangwe, who until Thursday was in charge of Water, Environment and Natural Resources, deputy Governor Philip Kutima (Agriculture) and Joseph Indire (Education). Geoffrey Omulayi was moved from the Finance docket to Roads, Energy and Public Works, replacing Dr Collins Matemba. who has moved to the Health Services docket. Immediate former County Public Service Board chairperson Rodah Masaviru  is the new County Public Service Board boss. Rachel Okumu, who was in charge of the Health docket, has been moved to Agriculture which until yesterday was headed by deputy Governor Kutima. Alfred Matianyi was moved from Housing, Urban Areas and Physical Planning to Trade and Tourism, replacing Kassim Were who will be heading the Social Services, Youth and Culture docket. Matianyi has been replaced by Robert Makhanu who has been in charge of Social Services, Youth and Culture. Fanuel Wangia is the the new Water, Environment and Natural Resources CEC. Wangwe was named the acting CEO of the County Investments and Development Agency while Indire become acting County Microfinance Corporation CEO. The changes take effect immediately. Oparanya announced that merging of the Finance, Communication and ICT will improve efficiency. He had on July 16 warned that staff implicated in corruption during the ongoing external audit will be sacked. Oparanya, who spoke during the swearing-in of three new chief officers at the county chambers, said some employees had taken advantage of his busy schedule of national duty to engage in graft. “We have had cases where people have stolen and when you ask that they be subjected to internal probe, you are told they were acquitted. This is corruption. This has forced us to use independent individuals because people inside here cannot be trusted,” he said. He said he will dedicate most of his time to dealing with corruption in the county. “My national mandate that has been keeping me busy is coming to an end and I will soon be here with you. If the report touches on you, it doesn’t matter whether you are my friend or relative. You will go,” the governor said.  - mwaniki fm