Five years ago, a teenager walked into a clinic for a dental procedure but came out in a vegetative state. The licences of the two doctors who carried out the surgery will be suspended for six months after they lost a review application at the High Court. Dr Sunil Vinayak, a dental surgeon, and Dr Geoffrey King’anga Muiruri were slapped with six-month suspension as directed by the Professional Conduct Committee (PCC) in September 2018. Judge John Mativo on Wednesday dismissed the application by the two medics, saying there was no malice in the punishment imposed by the PCC. "In view of my analysis of the facts, the law, the authorities and conclusions enumerated herein, the conclusion becomes irresistible that this is not a proper case for the court to unleash any of the judicial review orders sought," he ruled. The judge noted that a patient approaching a doctor expects medical treatment with all the knowledge and skill that the doctor possesses to bring relief to his medical problem. “The relationship takes the shape of a contract retaining the essential elements of tort. A doctor owes certain duties to his patient and a breach of any of these duties gives a cause of action against the doctor,” he held. "Expectations of a patient are two fold: doctors and hospitals are expected to provide medical treatment with all the knowledge and skill at their command and, secondly, they will not do anything to harm the patient in any manner either because of negligence, carelessness or reckless attitude of their staff." All was well until the morning of August 26, 2015 when Isaac Ombuoro took his son Michael, then 11 years old, to the clinic where he was admitted for multiple dental extractions, cleaning, fissure sealants and fitting of braces. During the procedure, Dr Muiruri administered an anesthetic on the minor while Dr Vinayak performed the dental procedures. The minor suffered cardiac arrest on the operating table. CPR was performed and he was restarted to allow completion of dental procedures. Subsequently, he was transferred to MP Shah Hospital ICU where he was managed for out of hospital cardiac arrest, hypoxic brain injury and reduced level of consciousness. On September 12, 2015, he was discharged in a vegetative state. Aggrieved by this, the minor’s dad lodged a complaint with the board. In his case before the PCC the man said it was sad that the life of a young man was reduced to such a state because of negligence. The matter was determined in favour of the minor’s family. Dr Vinayak’s licence was suspended for six months, his clinic stopped from performing procedures under general anesthesia and ordered to cease operating a theatre within the clinic until it was inspected and approved by the board. He was also directed to get into mediation with the family with aim of compensating them. As for Dr Muiruri, the board also suspended his private practice and retention licences among other things. Dr Vinayak challenged the authority of the body that imposed punishment on him saying it did not have powers to do so. He also opposed the order against the clinic saying there were no charges against it which at the time was licensed to operate as a private medical institution. He said that even if it had the punishment imposed was excessive. He sought an order to quash that decision. Also sought was an order to stop his possible prosecution. Edited by Henry Makori