A governor in Western is so frustrated by some of his chief officers who purchased maize for Covid-19 relief at an exorbitant price, Sh15,000 per 90kg bag. The local Covid-19 committee had settled on a price of Sh4,000 per bag, but the officers went ahead and bought 100 bags for Sh1.5 million. At the local markets, a bag of the same size goes for Sh2,800. The governor now believes his officers have just set him up for arrest for their own misdeeds. Addressing a meeting recently, the county chief lamented that his officers had just invited the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commissioner chief executive officer Twalib Mbarak (pictured) and officers from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to arrest him for corruption-related offences. Residents of a county at the Coast are holding their breath against fears corrupt forces have compromised works on a flagship mega project being executed by President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration. Well, their cry is that the venture is falling apart even before it is put to use, eliciting whispers that the concerned officials may have dipped their hands in the cookie jar. Insiders say only engineers can understand how the quality has been compromised. Maybe detectives experienced in this field can make a stop at the site with a view to initiating investigations into what may have gone wrong. A tug of war has erupted in a county in Mt Kenya once again, pitting a female Tangatanga legislator against a popular senator. Over the weekend, the supremacy war played out when a top diplomat visited the county to distribute food. Corridors has learnt the always fussy MP flatly turned down the offer saying her constituents were not so poor and hungry that they beg for food. This forced the top Western envoy to divert the donation to a neighbouring constituency. The envoy had been invited by the youthful senator to the region. Kenyans seem to have a phobia about uniformed officers from the 'disciplined forces'. This became apparent recently when Nairobi Metropolitan Services director general Mohamed Badi - dressed in full combat gear - visited a construction site on a disputed land. Well, construction workers at the site in Parklands took to their heels upon seeing Badi. Accompanying the director-general were bodyguards, police officers, City Hall security chiefs, an MP and the ward representative. The entourage was certainly too frightening for the construction workers. They would not stay to defend their employer, a private developer accused of constructing a commercial building on a grabbed piece of land in Parklands Highridge ward.