Sixty health workers have turned positive since the beginning of the week, Council of Governors chairman Wycliff Oparanya has said. In a statement on Wednesday, Oparanya said that the health workers are from 38 counties. In those 38 counties, 9,727 tests were carried out. Out of the people who turned positive this week, 60 are frontline healthcare workers. By July 8, a total of 257 health workers in the country had contracted the coronavirus. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said they are continuing to issue PPEs to health workers to protect them. Oparanya further noted that the National Treasury had disbursed allowances from April to June to all county governments. "We are now confident that this incentive will motivate healthcare workers," he said. In the status report released by Oparanya, the 38 counties have a cumulative total of 1,070 patients under home-based care. Of these, 803 patients have recovered from the virus. Oparanya said that the counties have extended psychological support; provision of hotline numbers for emergency response; and ambulance services for patients in urgent need of medical treatment. Counties have also extended the following services to families with Covid-19 patients under home-based care: testing of close contacts; screening of Covid-19 symptoms; and psychological support. He noted that this week, 38 counties reported on the status of active quarantine facilities. There are 1,105 people in active quarantine facilities and 813 people who were confined in public quarantine facilities have been released. Those 38 counties have trained and sensitized an additional 5,381 healthcare workers, bringing the total to 28,661 and an additional 9,301 Community health volunteers totaling 77, 614. CHALLENGES Oparanya said despite the end of the Financial Year 2019-20, County Governments are yet to receive the June disbursements. “Further delay will not only affect payment of staff salaries but also negatively hinder timely response to Covid-19,” he said. He urged the Controller of Budget and the National Treasury to urgently disburse the funds to County Governments to avoid interference with execution of their activities. “We further appeal that subsequent disbursements be released not later than the 15th day of every month as required by law,” he said. Oparanya noted that the Senate has continued to summon governors to appear physically before them, adding that this is dangerous. “We note that this is dangerous especially for governors in the risky age bracket. The Council acknowledges the fact that Governors are not opposed to appear. However, in the wake of Covid-19, we request that henceforth, any appearance is done virtually,” he said. He called upon the Speaker of the Senate to emulate the example of the National Assembly which has since dispensed with physical appearances. 