Stanbic Bank Kenya was on Friday recognized as Kenya’s best investment bank by EuroMoney Awards for Excellence 2020. The award was in recognition to the Stanbic Bank's ability to deliver solutions across a range of products and services to its customers. It also honoured the bank's outstanding breadth of capabilities in terms of client-driven business across debt, equity, mergers and acquisitions, corporate advisory, and areas such as foreign exchange and cash management. The award makes it their second win with the Global Institution. Stanbic Bank Head of Corporate and Investment Banking Anton Marais said appreciated the recognition, acknowledging the stiff local competition. "This recognition speaks volumes of our track record and is a pleasing achievement in Kenya’s highly competitive investment banking environment where we are up against both local and international competitors," he said. The award reaffirms the bank’s leading position in structuring relevant and innovative financial deals for its Corporate and Investment banking customers. It also demonstrates Stanbic’s unparalleled investment banking capabilities and expertise in financial advisory across the country and the pan-Africa region which has awarded them the International EMEA Award for 12 years consecutively. Jonathan Muga, the Head of Investment Banking Kenya noted that the accolade is evidence that the bank is on the right track and is making an impact for its clients and the nation at large. "We understand the intricacies of the Kenyan market and have the experience, skill and relationships to assist our clients negotiate the often challenging and complex financial and regulatory environments in Kenya and beyond. Delivering solutions for our clients that allow them to accelerate and grow their portfolio is our focus," he said. For over a decade, Stanbic Bank Kenya has maintained an efficient use of capital and strong collaboration between divisions. This was especially highlighted when the bank's investment in Sustainable Financing gained recognition when they received the most innovative and ground-breaking deal in 2019 for their involvement in closing Kenya’s first ever Green Bond by Acorn Project (Two) Limited Liability Partnership, a Sh4.261 billion 5-year fixed-rate green project bond. This was the first Green Bond to be issued in East Africa and the first corporate issuance to be listed on both the Nairobi Securities Exchange (“NSE”) and the London Stock Exchange (“LSE”). It was also the first senior secured bond in Kenya and the first corporate bond to be rated by Moody’s in East Africa. Meanwhile, the Standard Bank Group, in which Stanbic Bank Kenya is a member   won eight other awards under EuroMoney awards for excellence 2020. The awards include; Best Investment Bank in Africa, Best Bank for Wealth Management in Africa, Best Bank for Transaction Services in Africa, Best Investment Bank in Nigeria and Malawi and Best Bank in South Africa, Uganda and Zambia