ODM leader Raila Odinga's does not feel politically threatened by his rivals aggressive forays to penetrate his historical strongholds, his allies have said. The confidants hinted that Raila would only hit the ground running once the Building Bridges Initiative proposals give a clear picture of the next government structure. The report, which has recommended radical changes to the Executive, is ready and awaits presentation to President Uhuru Kenyatta. “ODM and our party leader are not worried at all. We have maintained that let us first go through the reform agenda and know the positions that will be there in 2022 before we offer ourselves,” ODM chairman John Mbadi said. Mbadi said opponents who have already launched early 2022 campaigns with an eye for the slice of Raila's strongholds will be “neutralised” once the opposition chief hits the ground. He emphasised that loyal supporters who have stood by Raila over the years will not be swayed by "short-term political gimmicks." “I don't think ODM would be worried at all. If you check why ODM has had loyal supporters for these years, it is because they believe in Raila. That is what makes Raila stand out from competitors," he said. Deputy President William Ruto and Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi have heightened their political activities aimed at chipping away Raila's support bases in Western and Nairobi. Ruto has been giving youth and women groups from Nairobi equipment worth millions of shillings in a bid to take control of the capital city politics ahead of 2022. Musalia has also been meeting political leaders from Mt Kenya and his Western Kenya home turf to position himself ahead of the 2022 race. However, ODM national treasurer Timothy Bosire said Raila knows when and how to engage the right political gear. “Politics is not a new game to our party leader. When he decides to enter the field he knows how to kick the ball, where to start, when and how to end,” Bosire said. The ex-Kitutu Masaba MP said at the moment, Raila and the ODM party's focus is to guarantee the correct democratic environment to serve the people. "The party leader is fully focused on the ball and it is only a matter of time before he engages the gear. This game is very clear in his mind," he said, dismissing Raila's opponents. “Those who are doing campaigns are free. Some do not have the game in their hands and that is why they are chaotic in their engagements,” he said. Raila has taken a break from politics after quietly returning home from Dubai on July 13. The opposition leader had undergone a minor hip surgery at the Dubai-based International Hospital run by Germans. However, as Raila recuperates, his main rivals appear to be rolling out aggressive forays targeting his backyards, despite the tough Covid-19 control measures. The DP has been hosting delegations at his Karen office, including church leaders and businesspeople from the informal sector, lifting the lid on his determination to push on with the 2022 campaigns. Ruto has given youths and women groups sewing machines, car washing equipment, water tanks, supported the jua kali sector and offered financial support to small and micro-enterprises. However, Raila's allies have poured cold water on the DP's multi-million initiative, claiming his support amounts to political 'gimmicks meant to hoodwink Kenyans'. On his part, ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna warned that no amount of gimmicks by Ruto would counter Raila's national appeal. “We are not worried by Ruto's gimmicks. He has failed to implement the youth empowerment programmes that he promised and has now resorted to handouts. His strategy will fail terribly,” Sifuna told the Star. According to Sifuna, Ruto should use his position as the country's second in command to initiate programmes that operate within the government structures to empower vulnerable groups," he said. Mbadi said Raila's strong support base is not built on political handouts but resilience and determination by millions of Kenyans who believe in his vision for the country. “I don't think it will change the mindset of ODM supporters. For presidential campaigns, I think it would be expecting too much if you base it on handouts,” he said. Edited by A.N