Charles Bukeko aka Papa Shirandula was many things to many people. He was a family man, a thespian, an avid reader and great man who loved this country. A lot of things can be said about this man, however most importantly, Papa Shirandula showed artists how to commercialise their craft. For many years artists in Kenya have not been able to earn a livelihood from their craft but Papa Shirandula through his act and his business savvy mind and clarity of thought managed to commercialise the art. It is a testament to him today that local productions have taken off, many artists who are on our TV screens today owe it to him and his professionalisation of comedy and drama. As a consummate professional he believed in his people of Busia where he was born and where he came from. He  spent his time developing and cultivating Luhya unity. Until his untimely demise today, Papa spent his free time trying to put together a write up on the different dialects in Busia. He will bequeath the people of Western Kenya this special gift posthumously. Away from the public eye he worked tirelessly to make sure that the people of western Kenya have an identity and speak in one voice. The region has indeed lost a leader of many gifts-a legend and a hero. When the history of Kenya is written, Charles Bukeko’s page will be coloured with commitments, dedication, and true love for the country because of what he did on the screen was great but his contribution off screen was gigantic and more than what people know about him. I  pay my respect to a man who offered his life for his community, his family and the great people of Kenya. I celebrate his art, his industry and his commitment to Kenya and indeed Africa. His rich legacy, especially his role in the world of performing arts, his ability to tap into the advertising industry for his colleagues puts Papa way above everyone else. He's an exemplification that it's possible to use your gift to serve this nation. Fare thee well Papa. Rest in peace hero. Amb. Yvonne Khamati-Yahaya is the CEO, Kenya National Heroes Council