Singer Willy Paul says Gloria Muliro is his spiritual mother, despite all the controversies surrounding him. Willy was brought to limelight after 'Sitolia', a collabo he did with Gloria Muliro. Speaking in a live session with X-tian Dela, Willy Paul made it clear, saying Sitolia changed his life completely. "Gloria Murilo is my spiritual mum to date," he said. Asked if she is happy with the kind of music the singer does, Willy said, "Your mum will raise you but when you grow up, they cannot control you but they remain your mum." Willy said the song did not give them as much money as people think, although it became popular. "We just got credit and platform from the song, but we made money for churches where we performed. They would say they are giving us a platform so as a new artiste, you sing unpaid," he said. Willy Paul and Gloria recently released a song, 'Wema', and fans were happy. Gloria said the song wasn’t recently recorded as many appeared to think. She said, “I have been asked this question many times since the song was released. Let me make it clear, this is not a recent song. We recorded it a long time ago, about three years ago before Willy started doing the other songs (secular).” Willy Paul says he stopped going to church after he was told he was dirty. "I pray for myself and stopped going to church after they said nachafua church. Acha nichafue kwangu," he said. During the interview, Willy Paul recounted how he was treated badly by the pioneers in the industry. When he did 'Kitanzi', he says he was broke and would get little money to just feed his mum. "I would get shows but when they (pioneers) are told to look for me by a client, they would paint a bad picture of me to the client, saying mimi ni kichwa ngumu. Anyway, shika number umcall." He said some people even would call Safaricom, claiming he had stolen from them. "They would call me for a gig and eat my money, saying I was not yet on the level of getting the money," he said. Edited by T Jalio