The father of Felix Orinda, popularly known as DJ Evolve, has asked members of the public, including media, to let his son be. John Orinda, in a two-minute clip heard by the Star said the current coverage about his son's health is doing him more harm than good. Orinda Senior said for instance the story carried by Nation Media Group had affected the DJ. Evolve has been bedridden he was allegedly shot by Embakasi East MP Babu Owino. The father defended the MP saying he is not a bad person as portrayed by the public. According to him, since his son was discharged from the Nairobi Hospital, Babu  has played a key role in ensuring that he fully recovers. "My name is John Orinda from Kendu Bay in Homa Bay county. I am the father to Felixc Orinda or DJ Evolve. Since he was discharged he has really improved and we are praying that he gets better soon," John said. He said the medication Evolve has been taken was provided by Babu. "We have nurses who are attending to him day and night and it is the MP who facilitates them. So mimi naweza sema sio mtu mbaya sana vile watu wanafikiria (therefore I cannot say he's as bad a man as is being portrayed)," he said. John said Babu has been with the family all through. "For now all we want is to pray for my son to walk even if not now but some day he will," Orinda said. He added, "The MP should also continue supporting us because we don't have the financial muscle to cater for my son's bills." "I also appeal to the members of the public and especially the media to stop bothering him because it will traumatise him more." His sentiments come hours after the MP threatened to sue Nation Media Group over a story on the DJ aired on NTV in which Evolve said he's been unable to do anything for himself after the shooting. Babu was charged with attempted murder and behaving in a disorderly manner. He denied the charges preferred against him at a Milimani court in January and was granted Sh10 million bail, which was later reviewed to Sh5 million. The NTV video showed the DJ has not fully regained his voice and is struggling to talk. But through his lawyers, Okatch and Partners Advocates, Babu asked the media for a public apology within two days. He wants the media house to admit liability for 'slanderous and libelous statements' or he will sue. In a demand letter seen by the Star on Thursday, Babu claims that the piece aired on TV was aimed at pitting him against the public. “That your story on the plight of Orinda though noble as it shows his improved state, has been used by yourselves to attack, accuse, persecute. reprimand, convict our client in the eyes of the public. The sole intention was indeed to whip up emotions, and incite the public against our client, ” the letter dated July 1 read. Babu said the story infringes his constitutional rights to a fair hearing. He said that the 'slanderous, libelous defamatory remarks' have made him suffer considerable mental anguish and embarrassment. "... as a result of your aforesaid words and statements which have made him doubt whether he can ever have a fair trial after your illegal actions, ” he said. "We shall seek appropriate remedies which will include, but not limited to aggravated and exemplary damages as well as costs of the action without any further reference to yourselves.” Earlier the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji said Babu's prosecution in the matter  has been slowed down by the inability of the victim to record a statement. Haji said the shooting incident has affected his speech. Haji said the IO report indicates that the victim is paralyzed and has a speech impediment making it very challenging to record his statement. The DPP's  sentiments came amid public outrage on how the MP is living a lavish life while the victim is suffering. In mid-January this year, a CCTV footage from B-Club showed Babu drawing his gun and shooting a man who appeared to be Orinda in Kilimani. Babu was arrested over the incident. Since the incident, an online petition that seeks to stop a culture of allowing firearms into entertainment spaces in Kenya has been launched. The organiser Gregg Tendwa, said club owners should champion the conversation on the safety of revellers. “We want to stop the culture of allowing guns into entertainment spaces in Kenya, while demanding justice for Felix Orinda, popularly known as DJ Evolve,” read part of the petition. “The DJ Fraternity in Kenya and the diaspora calls for immediate action by Club Owners and the relevant government authority to bring to book the perpetrators of the crime.”