Cancer is the most common chronic illness preying on secondary school students with blood cancers like Leukemia accounting for the majority of cases reported. A medical insurance report by the National Hospital Insurance Fund shows 534,961 were treated as outpatient and 71,920 as inpatients under a student cover targeting secondary school students. Last year, 606,893 students sought medical attention under the cover. Another 197 students sought specialised medical care and 12 of them were treated outside the country with seven seeking medication for cancer. The others were treated locally with Kenyatta National Hospital being the most preferred destination. The medical cover branded Eduafya is implemented through NHIF by the Ministry of Education and covers 2,714,232 students. The ministry negotiated an annual premium of Sh1,350 per student and spent Sh3.7 billion on students who sought medical attention in the period. In general, the most prevalent medical conditions in secondary schools were respiratory and protozoan infections such as Malaria, diarrhoea and amoeba. NHIF shows 84,000 students sought medication for upper respiratory diseases such as asthma and bronchitis between January and December last year. Protozoan diseases such as diarrhoea and amoeba which are largely linked to poor sanitation are the second most frequent cases reported with 71,000 students treated in the past year. However, the protozoan ailments dominate in severity with 22,495 students admitted to various hospitals for inpatient services. Cancer India was the most preferred destination for overseas referrals. Of those flown abroad, seven sought a bone marrow transplant to correct Leukemia. Other students flown abroad included two cases of muscular skeletal conditions - the term used to refer to deformity of the spine. One student also went for kidney transplant, while another was treated for Aneurism, which is the clinical term for ballooning of a blood vessel. One student sought treatment for brain tumour. On why cancer remains prevalent among the long list of terminal illnesses, NHIF acting director for registration and compliance Robert Otom gives three possibilities. First, he argues that the population increase is a likely factor for the higher number of cases. The second reason is improved diagnosis compared to previous years, while the last is mutation linked in lifestyle and environmental changes. “The increase in cancer numbers is happening across the general population and the most common cancers in children is Leukemia so it is in line with the epidemiological trends,” Otom said. Deaths NHIF recorded 224 deaths in secondary school last year. However, NHIF did not disclose the main causes of death. Otom told the Star that the high number of students seeking eye surgery is worrying. The cases are prevalent in the Rift Valley region. “We need to understand especially in Rift Valley what is causing the eye problems,” Otom said. Doctor Thuranira Kaugiria explains that congenital issues or deformity of the spine that saw two students seek treatment overseas are linked to the antenatal care of mothers and non-consumption of folic acid. Road accidents NHIF also raised concern over the number of students involved in road accidents In the past year, 10 students were reported to have been involved in severe road accidents. “They happen mostly during the opening and closing periods and most of them are motorcycle accidents," Otom said. Kenya Secondary Heads Association chairman Indimuli Kahi on Thursday said an elaborate system should be developed to ease movement of learners to and out of schools. "During the closure of schools, the ministry ordered that learners be ferried exclusively unlike the tradition where they are just let to find their way home," Kahi told the Star on Thursday. While some stakeholders criticise the cover as under-utilised, NHIF says the number of those seeking medical attention is a true reflection of those who are sick and require medication. Otom says the age group is characterised by a stronger immune level and making them less susceptible to most medical conditions.  Edited by R.Wamochie