A party leader is in trouble for double-dealing two key political figures. The politician, who is said to be receiving facilitation from some state operatives, recently blew his cover when his close associate attended a function organised by another politico. The associate, who unsuccessfully contested a by-election, has of late become the go-between for the party leader. His appearance at the function triggered a backlash in the politician's home turf. The two key figures the party leader is getting facilitation from are in opposing camps of the Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji (pictured) -led BBI process. A team of corrupt senior Kenya Revenue Authority managers are reportedly colluding with tax evaders to destabilise the institution. Sources reveal that some top officials under investigation for corrupt practices have been having secret meetings funded by companies charged with tax evasion. It appears a planned online corruption system to be unveiled by Commissioner General Githii Mburu has sent the officers into a panic mode, amid a heightened onslaught by the DCI targeting corrupt KRA officers. The commissioner general — not known to bluff — successfully rolled out a performance management system that saw 15 senior officers sacked after failing to meet revenue targets. A famous blogger associated with a senior State House operative has sent tongues wagging over moves that appear to be suggesting his loyalty is shifting soon. The blogger, who has been viciously attacking Deputy President William Ruto on social media platforms, last week sent out some tweets that rallied support for the DP’s ally who is under siege from state functionaries. The tweet was the latest in many others he has sent out of late supporting the DP. There are reports that the blogger could have been recruited recently into the DP's camp. Many argue it would be a big catch for the DP given the social media following the blogger enjoys. A county governor in Western appears to be creating a problem in an attempt to solve another by moving his operations to a hotel after his office was slapped with electricity and water bills running into millions of shillings. The man, instead of working ways with his officers to settle the bills, has resorted to working from the famed hotel where he is accruing more debt at the expense of taxpayers. Corridors is apprised that the county officials meet at the hotel, yet boardrooms at the government block, which is a short drive from the hotel, were recently furnished at hundreds of thousands of shillings.