The Health Ministry has expressed concerns over the misconduct of the majority of restaurants within Nairobi city. Director of public health Dr. Francis Kuria on Saturday said it was disheartening that many restaurant operators had turned their premises into bars against the MoH protocols. Kuria said president Uhuru Kenyatta during his address for a partial reopening of these places said they would only operate as takeaways and not sit on. "You have asked for closure by yourselves and don't blame anyone. The decision that will be announced on Monday after the summit will be as a result of gross misconduct by these restaurants," Kuria said. President Uhuru then said restaurants that meet the highest levels of health regulation will be allowed to open. "One immediate step from the work done so far is that we will allow a few restaurants and eateries that show the highest levels of health regulation compliance, and the ability to arrange for employee testing, to undertake minimal operations while maintaining measures that mitigate against the spread of the coronavirus," he said. Uhru, however, warned that any report by the public or authorities that these establishments are not following the measures will lead to their instant closure and prosecutions. "We will reopen this economy but it must be in a way that does not endanger thousands of lives. Some countries had initially succeeded in suppressing the pandemic, only for them to open up without a proper process and suffer a huge spike in infections," the President said. At least 5,000 bars, entertainment spots, and restaurants remain closed in Nairobi with another 4,000 in Mombasa. Countrywide, more than 20,000 joints are shut, according to the Pubs Entertainment and Restaurant Association of Kenya (Perak). This put more than 300,000 direct jobs on the edge with at least two million dependents affected. Kuria also said the ministry has noted that several bars are operating illegally and security officers have been instructed to crack down on them. He said in the partial reopening measures, it was announced that bars remained closed and how bar owners decided to start operating without a clearance certificate is puzzling. "These bars are operating illegally. Take note that if your bar is closed and permit withdrawn don’t blame anyone," Kuria noted. He said though police officers do not have the cap[acity to police everyone all the time, somehow they will be able to catch those who are breaking the protocols. "Fellow Kenyans be reminded that if there is a time to be careful, it is now.  The behaviour in those bars is disheartening, masks thrown off with no handwashing," Kuria said. He said if these bars intended to operate, they could only sell alcohol as takeaways. CS Mutahi Kagwe had warned that the opening of restaurants was not a permit for bars to start selling alcohol Kuria's sentiments come as Kenya’s Covid-19 cases hit 16, 643 after  375 more people tested positive. This was out of 2,052 samples that were tested in 24hrs. Health CAS Dr. Rashid Aman said out of the 375 new cases, 351 are Kenyans while 24 are foreigners. Aman said some 128 patients had been discharged bringing the total number of recoveries to 7,574. "Unfortunately, we have lost 4 more patients bringing the number of fatalities to 278. Our sincere condolences to the families affected," Aman said. He added, "It is now evident that reality has hit home, our brothers and sisters are losing lives with many more in hospitals. 50 per cent of those who have succumbed should be noted that had underlying conditions," Aman said. Meanwhile, Kenyans continue to wait for the outcome of the Extra-Ordinary Summit called by President Uhuru Kenyatta which will be held on Monday. It was initially meant for Friday but was rescheduled after a request from the Council of Governors. The meeting is expected to address the level of preparedness across the 47 counties in containing the pandemic that has claimed more than 260 lives in the country since March 13, 2020. Some county chiefs had indicated they will implore the President to re-impose the lockdown if the alarming pace of the pandemic continues.