Facing a revenue crisis, most North Rift counties have revised downward by almost half their internal revenue collection targets for this year due to the prolonged impact of Covid-19. The North Rift Economic Bloc counties expect that the decline in business activities and other operations will lower residents’ ability to pay taxes, land rates, buy trade licenses and pay other charges. The tabled 2020-21budgets indicate revenue collections fell by more than 60 per cent in most counties in the second half of the last financial year. Covid-19 and flooding were to blame and their effects will continue this year. Uasin Gishu county, which had aimed to collect Sh1 billion,  only collected about Sh600 million. Nandi had aimed for Sh500 million but collected less than Sh300 million. The same downward trend was seen in Trans Nzoia and Elgeyo Marakwet where collections remained dormant for most of the second half of last year. “Due to the prevailing situation, we have been forced to revise our revenue collection targets downwards and retailor our budgets in view of Covid-19,” Uasin Gishu Finance executive Julius Ruto said. North Rift counties are debating budgets totaling more than Sh30 billion. The focus is healthcare, especially fighting Covid-19, and economic recovery. Covid-19 cases are increasing. Uasin Gishu has more than 100 cases and Turkana is second with more than 16 cases. All counties in Kenya are working to swiftly provide at least 300 beds to isolate Covid-19 patients, as agreed two weeks ago with President Uhuru Kenyatta. “Our budget will priortise healthcare to mainly address the effects of Covid-19 and also agriculture to stimulate economic recovery,” Ruto said as he tabled budget estimates at the assembly.  Nandi Finance executive Alfred Lagat emphasised healthcare that will help the economy recover faster. Of the Sh30 billion Noreb budgets, Uasin Gishu’s is the largest at Sh8.7 billion, Nandi budgets Sh6 billion, Trans Nzoia Sh6.5 billion and Elgeyo Marakwet more than Sh4.5 billion. The counties are also reviving stalled projects to stimulate economic recovery. Governors agreed to invest more in infrastructure, water and education, affected by Covid-19 and floods. “This requires extra funding by the counties and the national government, Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago said. He is the Noreb chairman. Uasin Gishu MCAs passed the second supplementary budget for 2019-20 for the Covid-19 response and to pay newly recruited healthcare workers. The approved estimates for 2020-21 include Sh5.7 billion for development and expenditures and Sh5.64 billion for recurrent expenditures. Nandi Governor Sang wants extra funding to expand health facilities and provide Covid-19 isolation facilities in each of the five subcounties. They will handle other medical cases after the worst of the pandemic passes. (Edited by V. Graham) 