Health CAS Rashid Aman has warned that Kenyans public and high offices are not safe from the coronavirus. "It is not a matter of surprise it is at the ICT ministry. We will continue to see the spread but we will move in quickly to contain it," Aman said. This comes as some staffers from the ICT Ministry at Teleposta Towers and the Treasury tested positive for Covid-19. "The virus has found itself in many places. We will continue to see many places where we will find that there are cases of infection and we will look into stopping the spread of the infection. He added, "And if we have today infection cases at the ICT offices, I don't think it is a matter of surprise. It is an expectation of the spread of this virus that we will continue to see but we must take the right action to try and contain it and stop." The National Treasury on Tuesday kicked off mandatory Covid-19 tests on its staff. The move came after 10 of the staff tested positive for the disease. In a notice from the Principal Administrative Secretary's Office, the cases were from 50 officers who were tested. The notice said the number represents 20 per cent of the staff and was alarming. "Towards this end, we have requested the Ministry of Health to conduct testing for all staff of the National Treasury," read the notice in part. The notice indicated that the tests will continue for three days with 200 tests being conducted each day. Aman on Wednesday said all Kenyans have the responsibility to stop the spread fo the virus by identifying those infected and isolating them. Kenya on Wednesday recorded 461 Covid-19 cases, bringing the total number to 11,252. This is out of 4,261 samples tested in the last 24 hours. Kenya's COVID-19 caseload crosses the 11,000 mark. This now brings the case load to 11,252 and pushes the country's cumulative tests carried out so far to 225,495. Another 51 patients have been discharged, bringing the total to 3,068 Health CAS Rashid Aman lauded health workers for their efforts. However, another seven have died, bringing the number of fatalities to 209.