Did Rongai MP Raymond Moi (pictured) let the cat out of the bag unwittingly when he commented about the political future of his brother, Gideon? The lawmaker, whilst telling his rivals they have no chance of ousting him in the next elections, said those eyeing the seat should pray that he inherits his younger sibling’s senatorial seat. Speculation has been rife Gideon Moi may run for president in 2022. The remarks by his brother was perhaps the clearest indication yet. He said his brother “is going for bigger things”, which meant he would go for the senatorial position himself and his rivals could  scramble for the parliamentary seat. Where there is the smell of money, they are there. That is how insiders in government described “tenderpreneurs” who have positioned themselves strategically to reap big from the Covid-19 funds. Sources whisper to Corridors some cartels working at one of the procurement departments dealing with Covid-19 protective equipment are on the warpath. It's said the cartels have promised to teach a female Principal Secretary a lesson for constantly standing in their way. Part of their strategy is said to be a massive smear campaign. Top government officials are, however, said to have been briefed on the plot and pledged to stand by the PS in her courageous effort to rein in the cartels. Still on matters procurement, a prominent businessman with deep pockets could be running out of luck. Sources tell Corridors the man who has done so many deals with the Health ministry is at the centre of investigations in one of the agencies in the ministry. The man brags of big connections and runs a popular business in up-market Westlands. He was at the centre of a previous scandal that rocked the ministry and which is still a subject of enquiry by Parliament. The role of the man who become an overnight billionaire is likely to be laid bare in the coming days. Residents of a county in Western are worried that the Kenya Urban Support Programme (Kusp) by the World Bank may not be achieving its intended purposes in the area. They argue that the programme is not working towards its objective to establish and strengthen urban institutions to deliver improved infrastructure and services. An official from the county tells Corridors that the county got hundreds of millions of shillings but only a walkway of about 200 metres around the governor's office has been built, and by three different contractors. He says nothing more is there to be seen yet the money is supposed to improve the local infrastructure and support beautification projects. 