More than 12,000 teen prengancies have been reported in the eight North Rift counties inn three months since schools closed. Human rights group warn that backstreet abortions Rhuman rights groups are also warning of increased back street abortions endangering the lives of many young girls.  Jane Waithera from the Women Rights Center says most of the impregnated school girls have been visiting back street clinics to procure abortions thus putting at risk their lives.  “Very few cases of the pregnancies and the abortions are recorded officially but we have noted a rise in the number of young school girl seeking to procure abortions”, said Waithera.  She says girls living in slum dwellings like Kamkunji, Huruma, Langas, Kidiwa and Munyaka areas in parts of Eldoret are the most affected by the teen pregnancies and abortions especially during the Covid-19 pandemic period.  Waithera and Kipkorir Ngetich from the Center for Human Rights and Democracy have asked President Kenyatta to ensure full enforcement of his recent orders for a probe into the increased teen pregnancies and action against those involved.  “If we don’t take remedy measures then by the time schools resume may be next year we will have ruined the  lives of millions of schools in this country”, said Waithera.  Speaking when he launched the Kazi Mtaani initiative for over 8,000 youths in Uasin Gishu County, Governor Jackson Mandago warned that tough action would be taken against men involved in impregnating school girls.  The launch was held at Kamukunji grounds on the outskirts of Eldoret town.  Mandago said those found involved will be dealt with accordingly and forced to pay school fees for their victims.  He however asked parents to take up the responsibility of taking care of their children especially school girls so that they are safe until when schools will resume after the Covid-19 situation. Uasin Gishu, Trans Nzoia, Elgeyo Marakwet and Nandi are some of the counties in the region recording increased teen pregancies.With  Mandago challenged the youths who have been enrolled into the kazi Mtaani program to work diligently so as to ensure it is a success.  "We want to see this program done the best way it can be so that when we ask for it to be extended or expanded we have basis for it," noted Mandago.  He said the initiative would help to deal with some of the challenges the youth face during the Covid-19 situation.  "If you are lucky to be enrolled in this program, don't play with it, always keep time and do as it's required of you," he added.  The county boss further hailed the process of recruiting the beneficiaries saying it was free and fair.  "I'm happy we have no complaints about the recruitment process and this is an indication that the program will be a success," he noted.   Uasin Gishu County Commisioner said the youths recruited into the program and majorly from informal settlements.  Jaldesa said those largely affected by the Coronavirus pandemic effects are those living in the informal settlements.  "We know those in areas like Huruma, Munyaka, Langas and Kamukunji are very much affected and this is why we gave them a first priority," noted Jaldesa.  Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno asked the youths to make good use of the payments they will receive from the initiative.  He said no matter how small the cash may be, they should wisely use it as a stepping stone for future financial success.  Under the program, the youths will be involved in garbage collection, opening of drainage systems among other environment- 