Legislators are unhappy with the government's diversion of school buildings cash to the war against Covid-19. Their displeasure followed Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha's disclosure that Sh800 million was taken away from the ministry and channelled to the fight against the pandemic. “We could do nothing. The ministry lost all infrastructure budget of about Sh800 million. We are all aware of the efforts that have been put in place to fight the pandemic,” Magoha told the parliamentary Education and Research Committee. Bomet Central MP Ronald Tonui had demanded an explanation on  why the construction of Bomet University Hospital had stalled yet money had been allocated for the purpose. Magoha acknowledged that construction of the hospital had been approved after public participation and Sh100 million allocated in the 2019-2020 Supplementary Budget II. “We are hoping that after Covid-19 is gone, funds will be availed and we will proceed with the project,” he said. Tonui said the hospital would go a long way in boosting health services in Bomet town as the area does not have adequate health facilities. “Health facilities in Bomet are limited. It does not sound logical to take away money that would have built a hospital to use it to fight a disease. Covid-19 is a health issue and the allocation was for the construction of a hospital,” he said. Migori Woman Representative Pamela Odhiambo said allocation of funds for the university hospital should not have been touched. “Allocations to the Ministry of Education should be reinstated,” she said. The government has allocated Sh6.5 billion to the Education ministry for hiring teachers and online learning during the Covid-19 duration. President Uhuru Kenyatta said the money will be used to hire 10,000 teachers and 1,000 ICT interns. “We know that our parents and indeed our students across the country are concerned about what the future holds and what plans and programmes we have for our education sector to ensure that our children are able to carry on with their education,” he said. The programme will also support the improvement of our education infrastructure including the acquisition of over 250,000 desks made by local artisans.  - mwaniki fm 