@alalmaurice The Kisumu government plans to conduct stratified random testing to scientifically ascertain levels of coronavirus infection in the county. Governor Anyang' Nyong’o on Wednesday said epidemiologists are coming up with a way to identify the correct numbers for the vulnerable sectors of society. They will then mobilise resources to access the required testing material and equipment. “The exercise will best help us contain the spread of Covid-19 in the county,” Nyong’o said. So far, the county has 401 isolation beds in its health facilities, surpassing the 300-bed capacity recommended for each county by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Kisumu County Referral Hospital has 85 isolation beds, Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital 100, Lumumba Subcounty Hospital 130 and Kombewa Hospital 10. Other beds are in Nyakach Subcounty Hospital (10), Ahero Subcounty Hospital (five), Muhoroni (five), Nyang’oma health centre (five), Gita (five), Nyahera (five), Chulaimbo (five), Nyambarimba (five), Katito health centre (five) and Victoria Hospital (26). Nyong’o said the ones at Victoria Hospital are reserved for health workers. He spoke after receiving Sh1.3 million emergency equipment donated by the Israeli government. Israeli Ambassador Joseph Oded presented the equipment at the Kisumu County Referral Hospital. It included 27 infrared thermometers, 14 electric suction machines, 20 nebuliser machines and two defibrillators. The equipment, Oded said, will help strengthen emergency service delivery at the facility. Nyong’o said Kisumu has 60 confirmed cases out of 1,934 tests carried out. Of the 60 cases, 24 have recovered and three have died. He said 17 of the active cases are in public isolation centres, with one case at a private facility. Some 11 patients are under home-based care. Nyong’o said they are also incorporating a multifaceted approach to the war on the virus, including infrastructure development and requisite human resource. “We have put in place robust border surveillance that includes the screening of those coming into the county through our nine border points and collecting their data through a digital system that will ease contact tracing should the need arise,” he said. The county has embarked on outreach and sensitisation programmes to stop the spread of the virus. The governor, however, told residents that the fight against Covid-19 is a collective responsibility. “Let us all do what we can to stop the spread of this pandemic. It starts with me and you. Let us be our brothers’ keepers by doing that which is required of us,” Nyong’o said. “Let’s adhere to all protocols as stipulated by the Ministry of Health to save the lives of our loved ones.” Oded pledged continued partnership with Kenya and support to the counties. Nyong’o thanked the envoy and his country for their continued support for the health facility. He said Israel’s Agency for International Development Cooperation has built an emergency unit and offered refurbishment and modernisation support at the county hospital. The Israeli government reconstructed the emergency room at the casualty wing and equipped it with modern emergency care equipment. The facility serves 63,000 people seeking primary health services monthly, with 320 seeking maternal health services. Israel also built an 80-bed capacity maternity and newborn unit. Edited by F'Orieny