Kenya's 47 counties own assets worth Sh110 billion and have liabilities of Sh57 billion. These are the findings of the Intergovernmental Relations Technical Committee (IGRTC). It recently completed its six-year term identifying all assets since the devolved units were created under the 2010 Constitution. Land and houses are the majority of assets. The committee handed over its final report to the new team on Monday at the Panorama Hotel in Naivasha. CS for Devolution Eugene Wamalwa praised the team for identifying assets at risk of being grabbed. The committee identified 62,342 parcels of land, more than 70,000 buildings and 2,600 cars owned by the old councils. Wamalwa questioned the budget proposal of Sh4 billion by the defunct Transition Authority, noting the outgoing committee had used Sh400 million. “The rehabilitation of the old Nairobi-Nanyuki Railway used Sh1 billion out of the proposed Sh21 billion and it seems there is a big problem in some departments,” the CS said. He expressed concern about the number of intergovernmental disputes. “We are grateful the IGRTC has helped solve some disputes between government institutions as the government has paid millions to lawyers during court cases,” Wamalwa said. Wamalwa said he was optimistic the Senate would help resolve the current revenue allocation impasse. “We hope for sobriety in the manner the Senate debates and resolves this issue that is very critical in the running of counties,” the CS said. Outgoing vice chairperson Allyce Kureiya said the committee had resolved 11 of 23 disputes between counties. “The biggest challenge we faced was interference from other bodies and we hope the new team will get full support from the State,” she said. New acting chairman John Burugu said he was optimistic the new committee would make more progress in its six-year term. “We are ready to tackle the pending disputes between counties and we shall seek the support of the State in reaching our objectives,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham) 