Nairobians do not seem to care about coronavirus, CAS Rashid Aman has said. "I'm saddened that here in Nairobi where numbers are growing in their hundreds, a lot of people do not seem to care. let us not behave like doubting Thomases..," he said. Speaking on Monday, Aman said Nairobi and Mombasa have the highest attack rate, adding that the figures should worry Kenyans. " This situation should jolt us. It seems that this message has not sank very well with our people. We have witnessed misbehaviour from our leaders as well," he said. " Some don't even believe in the figures given by the government. The country has relaxed cessation movement. But in some parts of the country, there are incidences of mourners eating together," he said. Aman said eating during burials is on of the avenues for the spread of Covid-19. "This virus does not make any decision on who to infect," he said. Earlier, President Uhuru Kenyatta called for an extra ordinary session for the National Security Council Summit on Friday following a surge in coronavirus cases. In a statement on Monday, Uhuru said the session will entail checking the counties state of preparedness towards the disease. The session will review the efficacy of the containment measures in place and review the impact of the phased easing of restrictions that were in place. "It will consider the evolution of the disease and the medical models on how Covid-19 may propagate within our country over the months of August and September," the statement said. Nairobi and Mombasa counties continue to record the highest attack rates. These two counties are the hardest hit. Nairobi, Mombasa attack rates are 176.1 and 151.9 per 100,000 residents. The least hit counties are at 28.1. Kenya recorded the highest number of Covid-19 deaths on Monday at 19 as virus cases rose to 13,771. This brings the fatalities to 238. A total of 418 more people tested positive in the last 24 hours. The new positives were drawn from the 2,784 people whose samples were tested within 24 hours. 