Doctors have faulted the government's move to import 20 specialist Cuban doctors. The Kenya Medical Practitioners Pharmacists and Dentists Union on Tuesday termed the move ironical, saying there were more than 1,000 qualified doctors in the country trained by taxpayers' money and ready to work yet remain jobless. The doctors are from the Brigade of Henry Reeve, a contingent specialised in disaster situations and epidemics. They will be stationed at Kenyatta University Hospital for six months. “The idea here is for these doctors to work with our own doctors to gain knowledge from each other. Since 2018, we have worked in partnership to improve healthcare services with the Cuban government. This partnership has seen Kenyan doctors receive specialised training in Cuba and Cuban doctors provide healthcare services throughout our country,” Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said. But the KMPDU secretary general Chibanzi Mwachonda now wants local doctors who are still jobless employed in the next two weeks to support the already overwhelmed healthcare system due to Covid-19. "We have seen 20 Cuban doctors said to be specialists brought on board. The irony is that it has taken more than four months for the government to engage its own local doctors. That is in bad taste," Mwachonda said. Kenya is a long-standing partner of Cuba in the field of medicine to facilitate training of doctors in Cuba. The union is concerned with the rising cases of infections among healthcare workers. So far, more than 500 have been infected and four succumbed to the virus. The union said the rate at which healthcare workers were going into isolation was increasing significantly, adding that unless something was done the country would find itself in a situation where there would be no one to attend to Covid-19 patients. "The workforce on the ground is currently overstretched. There was an advert to employ more doctors but we are yet to see them employed and deployed," he said. He added: "The healthcare workers are burned out. We appreciate the work the government is doing but this is a matter of priority." Mwachonda said all healthcare workers in all health facilities should be provided with N95 respiratory masks as they have a 95 per cent chance of preventing infections. They also want the provision of the risk allowance and insurance package fast tracked. The recent research finding that Covid-19 is not just a respiratory disease means infected healthcare workers might develop disability in the next two years. The union has also expressed concern about the scaling down of virus testing in the country, saying that the high rate of spread should be accompanied by a ramped up testing. The union, however, noted that reverting to lockdown might not bear much fruit. "The disease has already spread because with the opening people have moved from various counties to others. If we close again it will take almost one month to see a decline in infections, so what we need is individual responsibility." Mwachonda said focus is on setting up isolation beds and reagents yet the perennial shortage of workers has not been addressed. Edited by Henry Makori