Four hungry men who killed a goat were attacked by a mob in Baringo North and one was killed though he begged for mercy. The mob of 50 men in Koiboware village beat and kicked the men for hours on Monday night and Tuesday morning. They killed Isaac Chelal, known as Lorokee, 48. “The rest of the three suspects cheated death but were left with serious injuries,” Sibilo location chief Joseph Chemitei said on Wednesday. One man was hospitalised. The three beaten suspects were identified as Cheboi Kipkerengoi, Simian Cheboi and Evans Chepkaita, all aged between 18 and 23 years. “Police were notified and they arrived to transport the body and arrested the (theft) suspects,” Chemitei said. The body was taken to the county referral hospital mortuary. The stolen and strangled male goat belonged to a primary school teacher, Mark Kandie. Sources said residents walking home bumped into the suspects carrying the goat carcass at about 8pm on Monday. “They looked like strangers and when we asked them to identify themselves they refused and threw stones at us,” a resident said. He said they chased them until they dropped the goat and ran away “but luckily we identified one of them, Evans Chepkaita, with Rasta-hair.” The men then mobilised villagers to hunt down the ‘notorious’ thieves whom they linked to a gang linked to many goats stolen recently. He said they followed Evans to his nearby home where he pleaded guilty to stealing the goat and named his three accomplices. The four men pleaded for forgiveness, saying they were hungry and wanted to eat the goat. “They arrested Evans and tied him up. Then groups of about 15 men each were assigned to pick up the other three suspects from their homes,” another source said. The men were beaten all night at Koiboware Trading Centre until midday on Tuesday when Lorokee started vomiting and died on the spot. “You people of the media should keep silent and stop highlighting such incidents because it is so dangerous. It might alert police to look for the people who organised the beating,” a village elder said. Families of the victims are demanding justice, saying police should have been notified and the law should have been followed – the mob shouldn’t have taken the law into their own hands. “Investigations should be carried and police should arrest the suspects behind the heinous beating,” Titus Cherogony, the relative of one of accused thieves said. Baringo North subcounty police commander Fredrick Odinga confirmed beating and lynching but said he had yet to receive a full report. “I have only been informed by the chief someone has died but I don’t have much detail, officers are investigating,” Odinga said. The remote scene of the crime and crimes is about 30 kilometres from the Loruk police station. The place known for frequent bandit attacks and cattle rustling. (Edited by V. Graham) 