The University of Nairobi is unlikely to reopen in September as earlier planned after 14 members of staff tested positive for Covid-19. "Nairobi is the most affected part of the country and the university sits right at the centre of the city. It will not be prudent to reopen,"  Vice-Chancellor Stephen Kiama said on Wednesday. There has been a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases recorded in Nairobi each day. The institution had hoped to resume studies in September. Kiama identifies inadequate accommodation as top on the list of the drawbacks against the resumption of on-campus activities. He told the Star that the institution can only accommodate 10,000 students against a 60,000 population due to the protocols issued by the government. “This means, 50,000 students live in all other estates within the city and its environs, putting everyone at risk… We also have campuses in Kisumu, Mombasa, Kikuyu,” Kiama said by phone. Another consideration is the advanced age of most academic staff. According to the VC, senior teaching staff are easy targets of the virus as they are well above 50 years. However, Kiama said teaching and learning will continue virtually and no student scheduled to graduate this year should fail to do so. “Faculties and students will continue to engage online.  It has been happening but there are some challenges that we are working to address." Kiama said the admission and orientation of new students will be done virtually pending the determination of reporting dates. Last month, Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha announced that schools will reopen in January 2021. However, the reopening institutions of higher learning institutions would be on a case by case basis subject to their preparedness. Technical and vocational training institutions will begin a phased reopening in September. Some 20,191 finalist diploma and certificate students will report first to write the final exams cut short by the closure of learning institutions in March. The Kenya National Examinations Council tests will take about two weeks in the first phase of the institutions' reopening.  - mwaniki fm