The reopening of churches could not have come at a better time. Many people, including church members, have been hard hit by Covid-19. Many have lost their jobs and are stressed because of the resultant financial difficulties. It is only natural that they would seek solace in God's house. The guidelines announced on Monday by President Uhuru Kenyatta are understandable and well thought out. They are the only way to reduce the chances of infection even as we congregate. As a church, we have held discussions on implementing the guidelines and will communicate the way forward to members soon. We have established a Covid-19 response committee to guide us on the implementation. We do not expect any challenges in ensuring that the elderly and children below the age of 13 stay at home. In Nairobi, for instance, we will reach these congregants through virtual forums. We also do not anticipate any challenge in restricting our congregants to 100 people per service. Part of the plan is to use cell groups to select the 100 congregants who will be allowed into a church. The larger cell groups will be divided into smaller groups to achieve social distancing when they congregate. The smaller ones will be combined to achieve the threshold for the number of people to attend each service. Age restriction will be a challenge for our churches in the rural areas where majority of congregants are retirees. We anticipate that some elderly congregants may choose to come for service, so each church will have an isolation room where these congregants will be taken for counselling on the merits of staying home. Usually, our services last more than an hour but we will reduce our worship activities to fit within the stipulated time. We may have only the presider and the preacher leading the service. The number of praise and worship teams will also be reduced. We will encourage our members to embrace cashless means of giving offerings and tithes but those who choose to use cash will have a designated place to put their offerings. The guidelines are meant to safeguard everyone. As time goes by and the infections drop, even the elderly congregants will be able to join us physically for services. Stephen Magwilu is the presiding clerk of the Friends Church Quakers Nairobi Yearly Meeting