Football Kenya Federation are entitled to US$1,000,000 (Universal Solidarity Grant) and a further US$500,000 (Women Football Support) after world football governing body, Fifa approved Covid-19 Relief Funds for all member associations. The funds are expected to be disbursed to member federations around the world from this month. The Nick Mwendwa-led federation is expected to receive US$500,000 in July and a similar amount in January 2021. The US$500,000 support to women’s football will also be released next month. To ensure effective oversight, Fifa has devised strict controls for the use of the funds and federations will be subjected to the same Fifa stringent audit process. Meanwhile, FKF presidential Aspirant Herbert Mwachiro has lauded Fifa’s move, saying it will go a long way in assisting the affected groups in the football arena. “The move is very timely and it’s a shot in the arm for many federations whose footballers, match officials, coaches and other technical officials have been adversely affected by the Covid-19 pandemic with most losing their revenue streams and sponsors pulling out or temporarily halting their sponsorship,” said Mwachiro. The aspirant added: “This has put the above vulnerable sportsmen and women in a very difficult position as they are among the hardest hit by the pandemic. Problems in relation to hunger, health and housing are affecting this class of sportspersons. They are already in debt over the past three months and the need to be alleviated is even more urgent. The opportunity to access the interest free loan could also be looked into to help ease the burden on the hard-hit football community.” Further to the relief funds, member associations can access an interest free loan facility of up to 35 percent of the audited books of accounts of their annual revenues. The government, through the Ministry of Sports, had earlier on set up Covid-19 Relief Support Fund for players from different sports disciplines who are adversely affected by the pandemic.