Hippo attacks around Lake Naivasha have continued unabated as another foot-fisherman was seriously injured near Kamere landing beach. During the midday incident on Wednesday, his colleagues managed to rescue him from the jaws of the hippo before rushing him to hospital where he was admitted in critical condition. In the last couple of months, hippo attacks involving illegal fishermen have risen sharply with over ten deaths reported this year. Honorary game warden David Kilo said a group of foot fishermen were setting their nets when the incident occurred. Kilo noted that due to an increase in the number of illegal fishermen and flooding of pastureland around the lake, the animals had become very wild. “The hippo grabbed the man and during the struggle his hands were seriously injured but his colleagues managed to rescue him,” he said. The chairman of Friends of Lake Naivasha Francis Muthui noted that the lake was currently at the mercy of the illegal fishermen. He said the group was using undersize nets and encroaching on the breeding grounds of the hippos leading to the attacks. “We are worried by the rising number of illegal fishermen around the lake and if no action is taken, the fisheries sector will soon collapse,” Muthui said. A senior KWS officer who is not authorised to speak to the press confirmed the attack but blamed it on the illegal fishermen. “Currently, we are overwhelmed by the high number of illegal fishermen in the lake who include minors and we have also seen an increase in cases of hippo attacks,” the officer said. Last week, the county government announced plans were under way to form a task force on the challenges facing the lake. Speaking after visiting Karagita landing beach in Naivasha, the CEC in charge of Agriculture Immaculate Maina admitted that the lake was under high pressure from various quarters. “Currently Lake Naivasha has recorded so many challenges including over-fishing and we are forming a task force to look into these issues,” she said.  Edited by Henry Makori