Safaricom is targeting an extra one million customers on its 4G network through a flexible smartphone purchase scheme in partnership with the tech giant, Google. Dubbed Lipa Mdogo Mdogo, the telco’s customers will own 4G enabled smartphone by paying as low as Sh20 daily for almost a year. The pay-as-you-use model will see Safaricom customers acquire the Neon Ray Pro, a 4G Android (Go edition) smartphone which retails for Sh5,500 by depositing Sh1,000 and making Sh20 daily payments to clear the balance. The project seeks to empower customers currently on 2G devices to upgrade and enjoy high-speed internet connectivity. Speaking during a virtual launch, Safaricom CEO Peter Ndegwa said the firm is committed to transforming lives through quick internet connectivity. According to him, most mobile phone users are yet to be connected to 4G. Out of over 30,000 users, only 6,000 are on 4G. ‘’Smartphones in the hands of our customers possess life-transforming possibilities. They open a new world. We aim to take that world into the hands of every consumer through affordable means,” Ndegwa said. Google's operating system for mobile, will allow qualifying customers access to the internet and the world of possibilities through a smartphone that they can pay-as-they-use on a daily or weekly basis. “Android’s goal has always been to bring the power of computing to everyone. Access to the opportunities the internet offers is critical for any nations’ economic growth & social inclusion,’’ Android and Platforms Partnerships for Africa director Mariam Abdullahi said. She added the partnership brings more Kenyans online and help them take advantage of the opportunities that exist. To participate, customers need to dial *544# and accept the terms and conditions to opt into the service, after which they will receive an SMS approval of their eligibility and the value of the device they can purchase under the service. The eligibility of the financing plan will be based on the customer credit score. The subscriber will need a history with Safaricom network going back at least one year and be between 18-75 years of age. The initiative is coming weeks after Google partnered with Telkom Kenya to launch loon balloons set to transmit 4G waves into almost 20 counties in the country as telcos move battlefield from calls to internet connectivity. This was the first commercial launch of loon balloon technology in the world, with the potential of pushing Telkom’s internet subscription by 4.8 million users. According to the latest data from the Communication Authority of Kenya, Safaricom's home fibre popularity rose among Kenyans accounting for 33.1 per cent of the market share with 165,810 subscribers. Wananchi Group Kenya however, is still leading with 35 per cent market share with 175,433 internet subscribers.