 The national government has been asked to use diplomacy to ease tension between Kenya and Tanzania over the impoundment of Nyatike fishermen's boats in Lake Victoria. Area MP Tom Odege said tension has been simmering since President Uhuru Kenyatta closed the international border between the two countries after the declaration of the coronavirus pandemic. A week ago, Tanzanian authorities impounded 11 boats belonging to Kenyan fishermen and took them to Rorya district for alleged trespass. Their Kenyan counterparts retaliated and impounded 10 Tanzanian boats through two local beach management units. “We have tension between Kenya and Tanzania at the border which should be tackled diplomatically to ensure traders and fishermen, who are the most affected, have a peaceful life,” Odege told the Star by phone on Tuesday. He said the impoundment of boats is one of many recent issues adversely affecting area residents. “We need high level diplomacy to defuse tension along the border. Communication channels should be opened,” Odege said, noting other counties bordering Tanzania were similarly affected. Kibro Beach Management Unit chairman Joel Maulidi said the tension escalated on May 25 after a high speed Lake Victoria boat chase that resulted in Tanzanian autorites seizing five Kenyan boats and 15 fishermen. In response, Kenyan Coast Guard and Border Patrol security officers gave chase up to the border point. “Kenyans also took five boats, but released 15 Tanzanian fishermen. We negotiated and they were returned. This time we need help at a higher level,” Maulidi said. On May 30, Kenyan and Tanzanian security officials at Isebania facilitated the return of over 50 motorbikes impounded on both sides. Kuria West sub-county police boss Kemboi Kimaiyo and his Tanzania Sirare  counterparts alongside local leaders negotiated the release of the motorbikes. Trouble started on April 24 when Tanzanian youths chased away motorbike operators and Kenyans from their side before impounding 27 motorbikes. Kenyan motorbike operators reorganised and after demonstrations seized 24 Tanzanian motorbikes and took them to Isebania police post. The Tanzanians were reacting to news that Migori county had recorded the first three Covid-19 positive cases, all with travel history from the southern neighbour. “When the news came in that the positive cases were people who recently came from Tanzania, the border youths accused Kenyans of being carriers,” Kimaiyo said. Kimaiyo said there have been administrative meetings between elders and police in Migori and their Mara province (Tanzanian) counterparts, the latest being on Saturday.  - mwaniki fm 