Kandara NG-CDF has started mass production of face masks and employed 52 tailors to work on the project. Area MP Alice Wahome has said the project at Kandara Technical and Vocational College will help produce masks for teachers and learners in preparation for the reopening of schools. Wahome said the CDF office has partnered with the tailors to empower them while stopping the spread of Covid-19. Each tailor makes 80 to 100 masks a day and the CDF office buys each at Sh10. “Each of the tailors engaged will make at least Sh1,000 every day. Some will be ironing and branding them,” the legislator said. One of the three workshops being used is funded by the CDF’s emergency kitty, while the other two has machines brought in by members of the community. Speaking while launching the project on Wednesday, Wahome said she will invite Education CS George Magoha to the workshops so they may be approved to produce masks for schools. “I'm not for the idea that all 24 million masks needed for schools countrywide should be made by Rivatex and Kikotec. If we are talking about creating employment opportunities and distributing resources, it would be only fair to consider other institutions such as technical institutes,” she said. In a few weeks, the tailors have already produced 40,000 masks and are targeting 60,000 for distribution to members of the public. The MP urged the government to consider supporting such initiatives that directly empower the community while aiding in the war on the virus. She said the community wanted to be part of the projects and that is why the tailors were willing to use their own sewing machines. “I think it is a great idea and I'm hoping we can push it forward, especially when the schools reopen. We want to go down in history as part of the teams that responded to Covid-19 through the production of masks,” Wahome said. She pointed out that the workshops will help start a fashion and design course at the institution that became operational late last year. On Wednesday, education stakeholders unanimously recommended that primary and secondary schools resume learning in January next year, and technical and vocational education and training (TVET) institutions in September. During a meeting with CS Magoha at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development, Nairobi, they proposed that teacher training colleges reopen in October. Universities that manage to comply with the government’s guidelines on the management of Covid-19 will be allowed to start operating immediately. Magoha announced that each learner will be provided with two reusable masks and handwashing points put up in schools. 