The Kisumu National Polytechnic has put in place a raft of Covid-19 control measures as it prepares to reopen in September. The government directed that reopening of TVETs will  be pegged on compliance with virus containment measures. Education CS George Magoha asked the technical colleges to start preparations to reopen in September partially, with priority given to final year students. On Wednesday, the polytechnic's deputy principal Nelly Okoyo said they have been working around the clock to ensure everything is in place in accordance with the circular from the Ministry of Education. Okoyo said the measures include a reduction of the number of students who will access the institution daily from 10,000 to 3,000. The  polytechnic is currently revamping its online platform for e-learning. The remaining 7,000 students will attend online classes. “On the issue of social distancing, we have opted to reduce the number of seats per class from the previous 45 to 20,” she stated. The deputy principal said boarders will be reduced by half to 350 students in the hostels from current 700. Okoyo said there is a medical clinic within the institution where an isolation room has been identified for 10 beds. “The students who will show signs and symptoms of Covid-19 will stay in the room as they await their test results from the relevant authority,” she said. Okoyo expressed hope that the institution will open its door to the learners, adding that they have plans to manufacture own sanitiser and disinfectants which will be needed when students report back to school. The polytechnic is making face masks to distribute to students upon reopening. A month ago, CS Magoha met principals of TIVETs from Western region and Rift Valley at the institution to discuss reopening plans, where he noted that TVETs were better suited to social distancing and reopening. Magoha said the institutions can operate in shifts unlike primary and secondary schools. The CS said colleges can decide which of their programmes attend sessions so that they can create more space for social distancing. He said that a physician from the Health Ministry in Nairobi would visit the region and work with the institutions on what needs to be done. “In terms of sanitiser, I am being told you can manufacture but be very careful the alcohol content must be at least 70 per cent. We have seen in the market there is already circulation of fake sanitiser,” he told the principals. Magoha said that each institution must have access to a medical facility close by to treat fevers from illnesses such as malaria to avoid stigma. Edited by Henry Makori