The faction of Luhya leaders led by Devolution CS Eugene Wamalawa and Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has called for a truce with their rivals. The duo has asked the faction led by ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetangula to join the push for the developing the Western region. Eugene and Oparanya said on Sunday that political division in the vote-rich region will derail their development agenda. If the governments of Busia, Bungoma, Kakamega, Vihiga and Trans Nzoia mobilise joint resources, the region will prosper, they said. Eugene said lamenting in political meetings won’t provide a solution to the problems facing the people of Western. “Let us forge ahead for the sake of uniting our people instead of persistent lamentations and remaining behind,” he said. The CS said Mudavadi’s political co-partners Kalonzo Musyoka and Isaac Rutto and Kanu's Gideon Moi have agreed to work with the Jubilee administration while the former Sabatia MP is still languishing “in the cold”. Oparanya told those opposed to their Western unity bid that Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati, Busia’s Sospeter Ojaamong, Trans Nzoia’s Patrick Khaemba, Wilberforce Ottichilo (Vihiga) and he are not insane to attend unity meetings. He said all the five governors are not politicking but pushing for the region's development agenda. The Kakamega county chief regretted that the Western region still receives less money from the national government despite being one of the most populous. He called on Wetangula and Mudavadi to join them and champion for the country’s unity through the Building Bridges Initiative. “The current Constitution has gaps and we want to rectify that through BBI. BBI has a lot of things to solve for Kenyans including you the people of Busia and Western,” the Council of Governors Chairman said. Ojaamong said his decision to closely work with Oparanya and Eugene is to push for resources for developing Western region. “We have resolved to walk together and we are here to drive the agenda for the Western region. We have been going round and we have met elders. We are also meeting the teachers’ fraternity as well as women as we continue to move forward,” the former Amagoro MP said. Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati said wrangling among the leaders will only prolong the suffering of the people in the agriculturally endowed region. He asked Western residents to unite and support President Uhuru Kenyatta’s government and push for the implementation of the national government agenda. The leaders spoke during a consultative meeting with teachers from Busia at the Kenya National Union of Teachers Hall in Amagoro on Sunday. Other leaders present included Busia Woman Representative Florence Mutua and MPs Oku Kaunya (Teso North), Raphael Wanjala (Budalang’i), Geoffrey Odanga (Matayos) and Wafula Wamunyinyi (Kandui). Others were MPs Justus Kizito (Shinyalu), Geoffrey Otsosi (Nominated, ANC), Michael Mbito (Trans Nzoia Senator), Elsie Muhanda (Kakamega Woman Representative) and former MP Bifwoli Wakoli). The leaders spoke four days after Mudavadi claimed that he is the next target for the intimidation of Western leaders by the police as the country prepares for the 2022 general election. He said his supporters, legislators and leaders from the region allied to him will also be targeted. (edited by o. owino)