Elderly people from Kigwuru, Nkubiu and Mulika are pleading with President Uhuru Kenyatta for monthly stipends to cushion them from the effects of the coronavirus. More than 50 senior citizens gathered at Nkubiu, near Mulika market in Tigania East on Thursday to plead their case. They accused some chiefs and their assistants of bias when registering elderly people for government stipends and the Sh1,000 coronavirus cushion funds. Justus Murungi said they have visited the office of their area chiefs, the DOs and DCC but no aid has come forth despite some enlisting their names more than four times. He said the government has concentrated more efforts in containment of coronavirus, forsaking other killer diseases. “We are suffering since coronavirus was announced in the country. We beseech President Kenyatta, Governor Kiraitu Murungi, Tigania East MP Gichunge Kabeabea and Mama County Kawira Mwangaza to hear our cry and provide food aid or money,” Murungi said. Tigania Central deputy county commissioner Obed Mose confirmed discrepancies in the 2017 mass registration of senior citizens, "which didn’t capture correct data". Mose said the administration has nothing to do for the elders for now but appealed to the Special Needs Programme Department to provide relief food to needy elders in the subcounty. “Covid-19 has posed a threat to the economy and affected the elders; we need some relief from the ministry to cushion them as we heal the economy,” Mose said. Resident Martha Nkatha said, “We have many vulnerable orphans, widows and widowers and people who depend on one meal a day. Some cannot talk, some are blind, some have chronic illnesses, some do not have any caretaker, no food, no soaps, and some have no houses or land and live in rentals as they were evicted from their land." Agostino Igweta said most of the elders are aged 70 and above. Joice Gitura said they are shocked because they got similar empty promises of land from former President Jomo Kenyatta soon after Independence. Edited by R.Wamochie