Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga says he will only support a "transparent" successor who has not been "on my neck working for my downfall". Rasanga said he will rally behind a candidate who as always supported his government during his two terms. He didn't name anyone but he has had an excellent working relationship with Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi. He has often praised Wandayi as an exemplary MP in terms of development, the kind of leader who could succeed him after his second term ends in 2022. Wandaya, however, has not publicly declared his interest in the governor's seat but he has more support than others who have shown interest. The allies of Siaya Senator James Orengo, a well-known national ODM figure, have urged county residents to consider Orengo. He is the Senate Minority leader, a  prominent human rights activist and lawyer. Already Raila's elder brother Oburu Oginga has declared interest in running for Siaya senator, meaning Orengo's chances of reelection are negligible. That means Orengo could go for governor or wait and see if a referendum produces any significant positions for him. Orengo's aides said he would make an outstanding cnadidate for governor, if that's what he seeks. Orengo's allies have often been told, however, to let Orengo work on the national scene and not drag him into county politics. Many people want him to take over ODM leader Raila Odinga's position after he leaves active politics. Other names mentioned as Rasanga's successor include Wandayi, former Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo and Cabinet Secretary Raphael Tuju. Gumbo has indicated that if he doesn't get a direct ODM ticket, then he will run on another party's ticket for governor. But ODM has indicated  no one will get a direct ticket and the candidate will be decided by a primary to prevent disquiet in the party. For now Siaya MPs have have not endorsed anyone pending completion of the BBI and a possible referendum. MPs who spoke to the Star on condition of anonymity said it would be prudent to wait until after a referendum to endorse anyone, saying now the situation is in limbo. (Edited by V. Graham)