Five Mombasa MCAs who have criticised Governor Hassan Joho's administration are facing disciplinary action from their sponsoring party Orange Democratic Movement. ODM ward reps Charles Kitula (Frere Town), Fahad Kassim (Mjambere), Athman Shebe (Jomvu Kuu), Abrary Mohammed (Kongowea) and Robert Nyiro of Bamburi accuse Joho of misuse of public funds. They claim the governor mismanaged Sh331 million for ECD centres and spent more than Sh110 million in refurbishing his office. They have caused a wave of rebellion in the Mombasa county assembly as they called for accountability from Joho's government. The county chief came under sharp scrutiny on July 9 when he and Suna East MP Junet Mohamed chartered a plane to visit ODM leader Raila Odinga, who was receiving treatment in Dubai. Critics said the plane was chartered at taxpayers' expense at a time the country is reeling from the adverse effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. The five MCAs have petitioned the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to investigate their claims of financial mismanagement at the county. But on Monday the ODM party in Mombasa called a meeting to remove them from crucial assembly committees they sit in. Mombasa ODM chair Mohammed Hatimy confirmed the Monday meeting was to discuss the behaviour of the MCAs. “The party has since decided that the five MCAs will be kicked out of their committees. When the assembly reopens, we will discuss the matter on the floor of the house,” Hatimy said. Kitula brushed aside the threats, saying there are no valid reasons to remove them from the committees. He said the party had not convened a meeting in Mombasa for the past three years. “Now that we are demanding accountability, a meeting is called. These are intimidation tactics to force us to drop our quest. We shall not be intimidated,”  Kitula said. Kitula sits in three committees: Education, Youth and Labour. Shebe chairs the Lands committee with Abrary as his deputy, while Kassim leads the Water panel. On July 17, the five MCAs said they were aware of what awaits them. “We know the repercussion of saying the truth. We know what it means to demand accountability, but we are ready,” Shebe said. All the five MCAs are serving their first terms. They replaced ODM reps who gave Joho’s administration a hard time during the 2013-2017 term of office. “We are ready to lose everything,” Shebe said. The MCAs gave the governor 14 days to respond to the queries raised. Kitula, who once served in Joho’s office in the communication department, said they will lead a people's rebellion against Joho. “From August 1, if the governor does not respond to our issues, we will rally the people of Mombasa to stop paying county levies and taxes,” Kitula said. Kitula said they have tried to raise concerns about county spending on the floor of the county assembly, but they were not getting answers. “We cannot take our issues to the Senate, because we know what happens there. We have decided to take these issues to the public, to Mombasa residents,” he said. Abrary said in 2017 the county allocated Sh214 million for construction of eight Early Childhood Development (ECD) centres, but only four have been completed. “A further Sh117 million was allocated for furniture of the eight ECDs. Why allocate monies to non-existing ECD centres?” he said. The governor's office, according to the MCAs, was in 2016 allocated Sh89 million for refurbishment and change of furniture. Two years later in 2018, an additional Sh31 million was allocated to the refurbishment of the office. “We have not seen any changes at the governor’s office, apart from repainting. Sh31 million was already paid for unknown works,” Abrary said.  (edited by o. owino)