MPs on Tuesday approved the list of reconstituted House committees ending days of haggle between the Jubilee and ODM handshake sides. The changes according to Leader of Majority Amos Kimunya and his Minority counterpart John Mbadi are to reenergize the committees. Mbadi said this was especially in line with Parliament’s role in the implementation of the expected Building Bridges Initiative report. In this regard, the handshake parties have included in the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee, members perceived to be loyal to President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. “The committee will be busier in the coming days. We have introduced the House whips to ensure there is order,” the Suba South MP said. The changes saw Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung’wa removed as Budget committee chair and moved to the Members Services and Hospitality – famed as Catering committee. Also kicked out from the Budget committee are Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria; Embakasi North MP James Gakuya; Manyatta MP Nyaga Muchiri; and Bondo’s Gideon Ochanda. New entrants are Kieni MP Kanini Kega – positioning for chairman of the Budget committee; Mercy Gakuya; and Kuria Kimani (Molo); and Gideon Keter (Nominated). Kuria was also removed from the Transport committee as vice chair and will serve as a member of the Implementation committee. MPs have up to Friday to fill vacancies in the reconstituted committees in what House leaders said would be in line with their party’s interests. Vacant posts are vice chair of Security committee; Agriculture (chair and vice chair); ICT (vice chair); Education (chair and vice chair); Energy (vice chair); Finance (chair); Health (Vice chair); JLAC (chair and vice chair); Labour (chair and vice chair)and  Lands (vice chairperson). Others are Sports (chairperson); Trade (chair and vice chair); Transport (vice chair); Budget (chair); Delegated Legislation (chair and vice chair); Regional Integration (chair); NGCDF (chair); CIOC (vice chairperson); National Cohesion (vice chair); Broadcasting (chair and vice); Services and Facilities (vice chair); Powers and Privileges (vice chair). There were light moments when Ichung'wa accepted his new post. Junet taunted him that they chose to put him in the committee because he is a hardworking man. "If the quality of our mandazi and tea doesn't improve, I will know who to ask questions," Junet said.