A tribunal on Friday dismissed an application by Nema to object to an appeal by lobby groups on the construction of the Nairobi Expressway. The lobby groups were challenging the decision in which a Chinese firm was issued with a licence for the construction of the expressway. The National Environment Tribunal (NET) dismissed the preliminary objection by the National Environment Management Authority (Nema) that was seeking to strike out the appeal arguing that it had been filed out of time. In the case, Greenbelt Movement, Wangari Maathai Foundation, Dandora Community Justice Centre, Natural Justice and Katiba Institute appealed the decision made by Nema on April 2 to issue a licence for construction of the road. The lobbies argue that the highway will have serious effects on the environment. Katiba Institute says the appeal filed on June 2 triggered an automatic stay of the project, but Nema has disregarded the law. The licence was issued to China Road and Bridge Corporation for the construction of the road that has caused a lot of backlash from the public. The tribunal dismissed the application by Nema and China Bridge, saying that appeal before it was merited. The tribunal further said the law provides for an automatic stay or stop of construction once an appeal is filed. NET chairman Mohammed Balala ruled that Section 129(4) of EMCA is a clarification of the status of the position of matters subject to an appeal. Lawyers Lempaa Suyianka and Ochiel Dudley had argued that Nema and China Bridge had disregarded the law by continuing with the construction even after they had appealed. They had asked the court to issue formal stay orders to stop the construction of the road pending hearing of their appeal. Balala said they expect all advocates involved in the matter to respect the provisions of the law in particular Section 129(4). “I further direct Nema to forward this ruling to the office of the AG to consider expediting prosecution and speedy conclusion of the constitutional petition No 2251 of 2017 Okiya Omtatah VS others at Milimani, which has remained pending since 2018,” NET ruled. Nema then asked the tribunal for a stay of the ruling pending an appeal at the High Court but NET declined and directed that the matter be heard expeditiously. The case will be heard on August 24.