A number of places of worship have opted to defer resumption of physical services and have opted to continue with online streaming. This comes after President Uhuru Kenyatta, in the first phase of reopening, on Monday announced that places of worship could resume allowing worshipers to attend service from July 14 following the protocols developed by the Inter Faith Council. Addressing the nation on Monday from Harambee House, Uhuru said the country will commence with a maximum of 100 participants per service which he advised should last not more than an hour. Among those who have deferred reopening include  Christ is the Answer Ministries (Citam), Parklands Baptist, Nairobi Baptist Church and Jubilee Christian Church. Outgoing Citam Bishop David Oginde in a statement on Friday said all Citam assemblies shall remain closed until further notice. Oginde noted that the ministry will continue with its online services on the Citam Broadcast which airs on Hope TV, Hope FM and YouTube. "This is especially in the interest of preserving lives in this period when the Covid-19 infections are rising sharply. We shall continue to monitor the situation and advise accordingly," he said. PBC's Senior Pastor Rev Ambrose Nyangao said the limit of 100 congregants per service is not sufficient for the ministry and therefore also opted not to reopen next week. Nyangao said with the suspension of Sunday school as a safeguard to children under 13 years, the wholesome family fellowship greatly valued in the church will be affected. "We shall not have physical gatherings taking place and therefore wish to continue airing our online services. It is our earnest prayer and desire that we each take individual and collective responsibility to protect ourselves and our loved ones from the risk of infection," he said. Bishop Allan Kiuna of JCC also announced continuation of online services rather than resumption of physical gatherings. Similarly, Jamia Mosque Committee has also announced that the mosque shall not be reopening as envisioned. "This is because the guidelines to limit prayers to only 100 persons per session are not practical for Jamia Mosque Nairobi given its centrality in the Central Business District of the City," the committee said. Meanwhile, the Nairobi Baptist Church has announced that services will be recommencing tentatively on July 26.