Meru county assembly speaker Joseph Kaberia and three Party of National Unity MCAs face legal action for contempt of court. The MCAs were reinstated to their committee membership and positions after they were de-whipped by their party. Kangeta MCA Romano Mwito lost the Water committee chairmanship, Kiegoi/Antubochiu’s Kimathi Ithibua lost the Public Accounts Committee chairmanship, while their Mikinduri counterpart Gabriel Chokera was removed from all committees. However, the assembly reelected the trio to 17 sectoral committees in a motion passed on June 30. PNU members Jacob Mantili, John Muriki, Harun Kobia and Patrick Mwila, through lawyer Thuranira Atheru, filed a petition to stop the reinstatement. Hence Justice Alfred Mabeya of the High Court in Meru has extended the interim orders to that effect to July 30, terming the process unconstitutional and unlawful. “The interim orders were granted on the basis that the process by which the impugned decision was arrived at was unconstitutional and unlawful... Accordingly, the interim orders are extended till the next hearing date,” judge Mabeya ruled. Atheru threatened to sue the speaker and the three MCAs for contempt if they continue transacting committee business despite having been served with court orders. The four PNU members want the court to compel speaker Kaberia to revoke the reinstatement, terming it unconstitutional. They have listed Kaberia and the assembly as first and second respondent respectively. They have also listed the MCAs as interested parties, claiming they were de-whipped for openly promoting ideologies, interest and policies of the opposing party in the house. The move is seen as a political supremacy battle pitting Agriculture CS Peter Munya against Governor Kiraitu Murungi ahead of 2022. “By making the 17 committee appointments through the motion of the whole house without consulting the petitioners or the party, the respondents violated Standing Orders that call for consultation with assembly parties to nominate the members who shall serve the committee," the petitioners argue. Atheru said the house bypassed the relevant committee of the assembly, the Political Parties Act, assembly’s standing orders and no public participation was undertaken. In the court papers, the lawyer says the motion eroded the national values, the rule of law and democracy as it usurps the political parties’ authority to appoint their share of members to committees. “Unless the decision in the motion is stayed, public funds will be expended and wasted during the illegal sittings of the committees and various political parties entitlement to proportionate representation in those committees will be defeated." Despite the alleged irregularity, Atheru added, the respondents are hellbent on executing the motion. The petitioners want the court to declare the proceedings and passage of the motion unconstitutional. They also want the respondents directed to pay costs of litigation.