Kenya Tourism Board has signed Marathon World record holder and Olympic champion Eliud Kipchoge as magical Kenya destination ambassador. The engagement which commences in July 2020 will see Kipchoge promote Kenya as a preferred tourism destination both locally, regionally and internationally through various campaigns. “Being Kenyan is a very beautiful thing. I am passionate and love my country dearly and it is an honor to be working with KTB on projects geared towards propelling Kenya as a preferred tourist destination globally. Kenya has a lot to offer, and I urge local and foreign visitors to explore and experience what the country has to offer,” he said. KTB CEO Betty Radier said the board is pleased to have Kipchoge committed to promoting destination Kenya. Described as "the greatest marathoner of all time", Kipchoge has won 12 of the 13 marathons he has participated in. He is also the World Marathon Record holder with a time of 2:01:39 and the first man to run a sub-two-hour marathon, in the special event in Vienna, Austria dubbed INEOS Challenge. “Kenya is well known as the home of champions hence sports form part of our strategy to popularise the country’s tourism offering. ..Now we turn our attention to events held on the global stage that Kenyans excel in and there is no better collaboration than with Kenya’s Marathoners.” Radier said. Last month, President Uhuru Kenyatta announced that all international flights shall resume from August 1. The President also announced the resumption of local flights from July 15 under strict guidelines in the country's planned phased reopening. Aviation industry  has taken a lion's share of the coronavirus heat with most countries having suspended all international flights. The passenger business of the global air transport industry is estimated by IATA to make revenue losses between $63 billion (Sh6.3 trillion) and $113 billion (Sh11.3 trillion) in 2020. Kenya Airways, reported a gross loss of Sh12.98 billion, a 71 per cent drop compared to Sh7.55 billion loss the previous year. This resulted to massive layoffs as the airline tried to adjust to the new normal. KQ has sent home 182 pilots with more than 400 cabin crew facing job losses, raising questions over the future of the carrier.