Veteran trade unionist Were Dibo Ogutu has died, aged 86. He was not afraid to take on big industry and tell off powerful employers. He was never known to take a bribe to go easy on business or to buy votes. Ogutu was the founding secretary general of the Kenya Chemical and Allied Workers’ Union from 1957 until his death on July 1. Though his eyesight and hearing were failing, his mind and memory were sharp, his instincts keen and his dedication to workers' rights unmatched. Ogutu's voice remained strong and he mustered powerful arguments at the negotiating table with employers, sometimes persuasive, sometimes uncompromising. Undaunted, he engaged giant industries in legal fights, winning some, losing others. In 2017 he filed suit against Tata Chemicals Magadi Limited at the Environment and Labour Relations Court, accusing it of conniving with a section of its employees to withhold their deducted monthly union dues. Ogutu testified the company had connived with 56 employees by writing them letters to either confirm deductions or object to the deductions of union dues within 72 hours. He called that intimidation. "Mr Ogutu states this is a clear case of intimidation by the employer to coerce the applicants to leave the membership of the union in violation of Section 5 (2) (b) and (3) of the Labour Relations Act 2007 and Article 41 of the Constitution of Kenya 2010," the court judgment reads. The court ruled in his favour. Term limits Term limits and succession are often foreign in trade unions as personality drives the show, as long as most members are satisfied and getting union benefits. Ogutu’s tenure for six decades brings to mind 71-year-old Cotu boss Francis Atwoli who has been at the umbrella union’s help since 2000. In a 2018 interview with the Daily Nation, Ogutu said his long tenure was God’s wish and the workers were comfortable relying on him to be on the front line for them. The Kenya Chemical and Allied Workers’ Union, headquartered at Hermes House, covers workers in sectors dealing with manufacturing of chemicals and chemical products as well as vegetables and animal oils and fats. It also represents workers manufacturing glass and glass products, structural clay products, cement manufacturing, and all non-metallic mineral products, excluding petroleum products, coal and the quarrying industry. Cotu boss Atwoli, said Ogutu served for a long time because he was firm in telling off employers and even young union leaders did not want to challenge him during elections. Ogutu’s chemical workers union is affiliated with Cotu. “He survived in trade union politics simply by not being corrupt. He doesn’t buy votes, nor does he coerce anybody to vote for him,” Atwoli said. He added that Ogutu was “surrounded by young men who are not ambitious to take over from him.” Ogutu was a rare breed endowed with wisdom, Atwoli said, adding that he consulted him over many issues. “He was once an adviser to the late trade unionist Tom Mboya [slain in 1969],” Atwoli said. Ogutu is survived by seven children - Nelly, Dorothy, Monica, Fred, Tom, Dinah and Beaula 12 grandchildren and many great grandchildren. (Edited by V. Graham) 