Cartels have dominated ANC party and want to auction it to the Tanga Tanga faction of Jubilee, Nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi has said. Ososti said the current leadership is manufacturing fake minutes to be submitted to Registrar of Political Parties to make changes in the party. “We know the hidden agenda of this group is to auction the party to Sugoi that is why they are fighting any effort to revamp the party at all levels as they engage in secret dealings with Tanga Tanga brigade,” Osotsi said. The MP said the cartels have continued to violate laws including the ANC constitution and adopted a scatter-all strategy. “I want to tell the registrar not to be intimidated by former officials of ANC whose term has expired,” Ososti said. The legislator lauded Registrar of Political Parties Ann Nderitu for rejecting the attempted expulsion of Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala. The office (of the RPP) exists to ensure democracy thrives in political parties and members’ rights are protected as well, Osotsi told the Star on Wednesday. Malala was suspended from the party a few weeks ago by the NEC for alleged gross misconduct. “It is unfortunate that some few individuals think that by expelling members with divergent opinions from the party they are making the party vibrant,” Osotsi said. He accused secretary general Barrack Muluka and his Butere “hangmen” Dan Ameyo and Alutalala Mukhwana as the face of impunity, confusion and lawlessness in the party. But Muluka termed the allegations as childish, adding that party leader Musalia Mudavadi will go to the ballot with or without alliances. They are attempting to unprocedurally overhaul the party constitution and indefinitely extend their tenure in office, Osotsi said. ANC could have taken us to the national table to negotiate with others but a few individual have ruined it, he said. “You cannot strangle members’ rights by engaging in irregularities and illegalities and hope that the political parties’ regulator will give it a blind eye.” Edited by R.Wamochie