Garissa Finance officers have been put on the spot after some contractors accused them of demanding bribes to release payments. The contractors, led by Abdirahman Ahmed, said on Monday they have gone through hell in their efforts to get payments for services offered during the tenure of the previous administration. They said they are owed Sh1.9 billion. Speaking to the press in Garissa town, they said the officers demand up to 50 per cent of their dues before they can process their payments. They did not reveal names of the accused officers. The contractors said the officers have frustrated their efforts. Ahmed said some of them have had their properties auctioned by banks for defaulting on loans. He accused the county officials of defying the directives by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Treasury CS that they clear pending bills. But, in a quick rejoinder, Finance executive Roble Nunow told the contractors to be bold enough to name and shame the officials if their claims are genuine. Nunow said the county, in compliance with the presidential directive, has no option but to clear the pending bills. "If you have been cleared by the office of the auditor general to be paid, then why must you bribe to be paid? I think there are contractors out to malign the county officials for no apparent reason," Nunow told the Star on the phone. "We are under strict instructions to pay all undisputed pending bills. In fact, we are not paying contracts that we have awarded, ourselves, until we clear the pending bills." He said 154 contractors have been cleared for payment, while the services delivered by more than 300 others are still disputed. The county is paying depending on the year one took the contract, the CEC said. "I want to once again urge the contractors to be patient. We pay as and when we receive the money. Those who have been cleared will be paid," Nunow said. For their part, however, the contractors once again appealed to area Senator Yussuf Haji and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to come to their rescue. "With the Covid-19 pandemic taking its toll on the economy, we are faced with hard times," Ahmed said. Edited by F'Orieny