Government departments and agencies continue to close or scale  down operations as more public servants test positive for Covid-19. Among the affected departments are State House, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, Kenya Revenue Authority and the National Assembly. Some officers were last week either isolated or hospitalised. The EAAC was closed on Friday after its human resource officers tested positive for coronavirus. It was established that the officers had interacted with a number of their colleagues at the Integrity Centre. On Tuesday, KRA ordered its staff to work in shifts and forced others to take leave after some officers at Times Tower also tested positive. “Please let me have the i-support leave balances of all staff under your supervision as at 30 June and leave roster for July to December,” the station supervisors were told. KRA had last month ordered its staff to resume work at Times Tower “following the achievement of keeping Covid-19 out of the workplace." A Resumption of Duty by Staff on Leave memo from KRA Commissioner Elizabeth Meyo told the staff to resume duty and report to their places of work immediately, except for those with pre-existing conditions. The memo dated July 20 told the staff to organise eight-hour shifts from 7am, but work that can be done remotely can be performed at home. “Officers who work in the field can directly work from home without being present in offices,” the new memo said. The National Assembly last Friday asked employees to work from home without giving figures of those who have tested positive. “In line with the Speaker's communication of July 15, regarding the suspension of committees meetings to pave way for fumigation of Parliament Buildings, officers are advised to stay home as from today July 17 until July 28 except those in the Office of the Clerk and designated officers from the Sergeant-at-Arms' department,” the Clerk of National Assembly Michael Sialal said. The State House employees were moved to KICC, NHIF and Harambee Annex after a number of them tested positive for Covid-19. They include accountants, human resource, procurement, administration and communication department officers. President Uhuru Kenyatta operates from Harambee House. The other affected departments and ministries are the National Treasury, Ministry of ICT, Public Service Commission, Public Service Commission and key security installations at the Department of Defence. Some 13,771 people had tested positive as of Monday while 5,616 had recovered and had 238 died. - mwaniki fm