Lamu Governor Fahim Twaha, his predecessor Issa Timamy and top current and former county officials face investigations over Sh222 million expenditure on "ghost" projects. A Senate watchdog committee gave Twaha and Timamy 14 days to produce documents supporting the expenditure or face detectives. The Senate County Public and Investments Committee said it will recommend that the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission investigates the duo, current and former county CEOs as well as finance officers for "fictitious payments". The Kisii Senator Sam Ongeri-led panel demanded a list of the projects, their current status, payment vouchers and written confirmation of the existence of the projects. “In the absence of all these instructions, this committee will conclude that this money is spent without supporting documents and request the EACC to delve into this matter and unbundle for us the issue,” Ongeri said. The decision was arrived at after Twaha, who appeared before the panel, failed to provide documents to support the expenditure. There were no payment vouchers or projects' files to ascertain the existence of the projects. According to the 2016-17 audit report on the financial expenditure of the county executive, the projects include construction and civil works (Sh16 million) and the construction of buildings (Sh178 million). Others are purchase of furniture and general equipment (Sh3.3 million), purchase of specialised plant, equipment and machinery (Sh5.6 million) and overhaul and refurbishment of construction and civil works (Sh19 million). The report showed receipts and payments for the period ending June 30, 2017, of a balance of Sh222 million. Payment vouchers were not made available for audit review. “In the circumstances, the propriety and completeness of the expenditures amounting to Sh222 million for the year ended June 30, 2017, could not be confirmed,” according to the report. Twaha said since he assumed office in August 2017, he has not been able to locate the projects or access any document including the payment vouchers. “We don’t know whether the documents exist. If the auditors did not get documents, how will I get them?” the governor asked. The response triggered a barrage of questions with members demanding to be told whether the projects exist. “Lamu appears to me as a county that is not serious about audit issues….. maybe they don’t know the ramifications of audit and violation of laws. And I think there should be some consequences,” Taita Taveta Senator Johanness Mwaruma said. Marsabit's Hargura Godana asked, “Are you suggesting that there are no vouchers or somebody misappropriated this money?” Majority Chief Whip Irungu Kang'ata (Murang'a) said the governor’s response amounted to admission of guilt. “From where I sit, I am very surprised. Look at the response, very scanty. It is actually an admission (of guilt) that Sh200 million has been stolen or lost,” he said. Migori’s Ochillo Ayacko said governments exist in perpetual succession and it was baseless for the governor to claim he did not have the documents. “The former governor could not have gone with the documents to his home. You can take a challenge as the CEO of the county to put together a response. "You were supposed to complain on behalf of Lamu people otherwise it can be misconstrued that you had a sweet relationship with the former administration,” he said. Isiolo Senator Fatuma Dullo said, “it is important that we are told from the ground so that we know the next cause of action since there is not much information about the project". The auditors were unable to verify the existence of the said projects in the absence of the vital documents. The governor maintained that he had not seen the documents and appeared to shift the blame to the EACC and DCI for failing to act on his letters imploring them to investigate the matter. “I got elected into office to implement my own manifesto. There are competent authorities to deal with accountability in the previous administration. When I stumbled on a few projects that had been mishandled, we wrote to the EACC and the DCI but no action has been taken,” he said.  - mwaniki fm