A city businessman has dismissed claims that his Sh200 million residential property in Karen was sold off to a third party by the late Jonathan Moi. In documents filed in court, Stuart Gerald has accused one Eric Lugalia of producing fake documents to lay claim to the disputed property. He says in June, his team of advocates approached the Chief Land Registrar at Nairobi and forwarded a transfer document dated March 12, 2015, between Lugalia and Moi. Gerald sought to have the lands office confirm its authenticity or whether they have parallel records in respect to the suit property. A week later, the registrar said the transfer documents purportedly registered in the name of Lugalia are not authentic and do not form part of their land records. Gerald says he went further and instructed his advocates to search and contact one Sonyi Ondari, advocate and commissioner of oath who is indicated to have witnessed the transfer of the property from Moi to Lugalia. Ondari in a letter to Stuart's legal team said he never executed or signed a transfer between Jonathan and Lugalia. Sonyi has since recorded a statement with the DCI. “The allegation that Lugalia has been in possession of the property since 2015 is false, baseless and unsubstantiated," Gerald says. But Lugalia insists he is the legal registered proprietor of the suit property situated in Karen, Bogani Road. He said he bought it early in 2015. In an affidavit, Lugalia says he has at different times rented the property to individuals who have been paying rent and has always been in control and occupation of the property. “On May 18, I made a formal complaint with the DCI to make a formal complaint and request for investigations over the new strange ownership claim,” he says. The DCI, he says, subsequently wrote a letter to the Registrar of Lands to clarify the ownership status. The DCI later received a response from the registrar confirming that he is the registered legal owner of the suit. According to court documents, the suit property was first acquired by CMC Holdings whose title was registered in August 2001. CMC holdings then sold the suit property to Cheryl Jean Sonnichesen in May 2006. She took vacant possession from the date of acquisition and lived on the suit property until her demise in 2015. Gerald subsequently acquired the property following her demise. Former Chief Justice Willy Mutunga has since sworn an affidavit to substantiate the same. Mutunga and Cheryl were friends. He represented her in a land transaction that saw Cheryl acquire the suit property. In his affidavit, Mutunga says that when he last visited the property, Cheryl was in possession and neither Jonathan nor Lugalia were said in her requiem mass to have been owners of the disputed property. “It is my considered opinion that the court may want to seek intervention of the ODPP and office of the DCI to investigate this matter at the Nairobi land registry either before or after its hearing,” Mutunga says. He says he later learnt from one Linda Benvenuto, the executrix of the estate, that Cheryl sold the property to one Gerald last year who then took possession and occupied the property as the new registered owner. Justice Samson Okong’o has since issued orders stopping Lugalia from interfering with Gerald’s quiet possession of the property. The case will be heard on July 20. Edited by R.Wamochie