Kisumu county residents have heaved a sigh of relief after doctors called off their strike. Patients had borne the brunt of the industrial action that started on June 9. The medics stayed away from health facilities for 35 days. On Tuesday, a court in Kisumu ordered that they resume their duties latest Thursday. Employment and Labour Relations Court judge Nduma Nderi, in consideration of the overriding public interest in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, directed the doctors to return to work and wait for the county government to comply fully with their demands. Justice Nderi, however, added that the strike was protected and justified as the medics satisfied all procedural requirements prior to taking the drastic action. He ordered the county government to provide promotion letters to all the 126 doctors who qualify and pay their backdated salary arrears. “The county government to pay all salaries due and owing to the promoted doctors backdated from July 1, 2019, on or before August 30, 2020,” he ruled. Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union officials, led by Nyanza branch chairman Kevin Osuri and secretary Lameck Omweri, welcomed the ruling, remaining hopeful that the county government will comply. “KMPDU, in the foregoing, officially calls off the 35-day-long strike and ask its members to resume work immediately but not later than Thursday, July 16, at 11.59,” they said in a statement. Last year, the union sought to have the county government comply with the collective bargaining agreement (CBA), which took effect in July 2017 and was registered in court, and the return-to-work formula (RTWF) entered into by the parties on June 24, 2019. It wanted the court to declare strike lawful and protected, and Governor Anyang' Nyong'o's administration directed to comply with the agreement. The union said the county government had disregarded the terms and conditions of the CBA and RTWF, hence its members were only left with the strike option. Their application was opposed by a replying affidavit by the county secretary in which he admitted that the parties entered into the RTWF on June 2017. The bone of contention had been the promotion of 126 doctors within the timelines agreed upon and payment of salary arrears, including backdated accrued salaries upon promotion with effect from July 1, 2019. The county secretary said the targeted doctors were promoted and confirmation to that effect done by the secretary to the County Public Service Board through a letter dated February 4, 2020. He further stated that by a letter dated December 19, 2019, the board's secretary also confirmed that letters of promotion were not issued to 13 doctors who did not meet the qualifications for promotion. The county wanted the strike declared illegal. On salary arrears, the county secretary said funds had been allocated in the 2020-21 budget but added that payments would be done by latest August 30, 2020, as they waited for the National Treasury to disburse cash. In his ruling, Nderi stated that whereas the county had promoted the doctors covered by the CBA and the RTWF, it admittedly had been unable to pay the promoted doctors backdated salary arrears. “To this end, the respondent (Kisumu government) is in wilful disregard for a consent order styled RTWF. The respondent lacks good faith and clean hands in the circumstances of this case,” he said. Nderi said the county government had inordinately delayed fulfilment of the terms of the CBA and dishonoured the timelines set in the RTWF. “Workers cannot be held to servitude by a defaulting employer and they have a constitutional right to withdraw their services to compel such an employer to comply with the terms of a service contract." Edited by F'Orieny