‘Super minister’ Fred Matiang'i on Friday met Murang'a leaders to assure them the government is committed to follow up on development projects and push for swift completion. “I promise the leaders of Murang’a we will do our best to ensure all the programmes President Uhuru Kenyatta promised will be delivered," Matiang’i said. "We have been challenged to fast-track some works in the county and soon we will directly inspect and appraise the activities on the ground,” he said after the Murang’a meeting at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development in Nairobi. President Kenyatta had been accused by some leaders of neglecting development in his Mt Kenya backyard since 2013. This gave an opportunity for Deputy President William Ruto to make inroads in the region. The President has put a stop to that. He has virtually exiled Ruto and is sending in Interior CS Matiang’i who has sweeping powers to oversee all national government development programmes countrywide. Matiang'i confirmed the national government is working with Murang'a on upgrading and expanding roads and improving the tea and coffee sectors. It is also working on improving healthcare and power projects. The national government plans to conduct similar progress meetings with other regional leaders. Murang’a Governor Mwangi Wa Iria told reporters on Friday special attention is being directed to the completion of Kenneth Matiba Hospital. For five years, the county has been spending Sh4.4 million annually as rent while the hospital is being relocated. By 2021, the hospital is expected to have fully relocated to Kenol, with a capacity to treat 500 patients daily, compared to the current 100. The consultations in Nairobi were attended by seven secretaries, including Health CS Mutahi Kagwe and Education CS George Magoha, as well as county leaders. They sought to ensure the budgets of the national and the governments are continuously aligned to achieve mutual objectives. In two months, the county leaders and key government secretaries are to inspect the President’s projects in Murang’a to assess progress. Following the meeting, Governor Wa Iria praised the President for pushing county projects. "These meetings are in the spirit of a coordinated government and we are happy with the works His Excellency has done in the region,” he said. "Such regional consultation meetings will ensure a seamless relationship between the national and county governments," Matiang'i said. (Edited by V. Graham)