A blogger who allegedly posted on social media that Interior CS Fred Matiang'i was battling Covid-19 in a Nairobi hospital has been detained for two days pending investigations. Isaac Kibet, who was arrested on July 25 in Eldoret, is said to have posted on his Facebook Daily Star page account that Cabinet Secretary Matiang'i was battling Covid-19 at the Aga Khan University Hospital's ICU. On Monday, prosecutor Jacinta Nyamosi asked the court for 14 working days to continue holding the suspect, but Milimani chief magistrate Martha Mutuku declined. She gave the police two days to conclude the investigations since they already had Kibet's phones and laptop. The suspect was detained at Muthaiga police station. The case will be mentioned on Wednesday. According to a police affidavit, Kibet wrote on his Facebook page: "Fred Matiang’i is admitted at Aga Khan ICU battling Covid-19. The super CS is said to be among the 3CSs who contracted the deadly disease. "He has been missing from President Uhuru key events. Various sources intimated to Daily Star that Matiang’i was admitted at the facility after his health deteriorated at his home where he was under self-quarantine." Nyamosi said the post was false and made with the intent to cause alarm and panic among Kenyans during the Covid-19 pandemic. The court was further told that the screenshots of the post made their way to various social media platforms including Twitter whereby hashtag "Matiangiicu" started trending. "The post went so viral that Kibet pulled it down. We need time to recover the post through forensic analysis,” the prosecution said. Nyamosi said Kibet would, if released, access his Facebook and Twitter accounts and interfere with the investigations. Lawyer Kipchumba Karori, for Kibet, pleaded for his release on bail or bond, arguing that the detention was against his fundamental rights. “The investigating officer has the duty to investigate and conclude before a suspect is arraigned and charged. He has nothing to do with the analysis,” Kipchumba said. He said his client had surrended his phones and laptop as well as the passwords to the police and as such he is unlikely to interfere with data. “He is willing to abide by any orders. He has a fixed abode, is of humble means and may not be able to buy another phone soon,” Kipchumba said. - mwaniki fm