The effects of coronavirus have continued to threaten the livelihoods of many rural folks in Kilifi county. Many people who depended on menial jobs for a livelihood have now been turned to beggars as the jobs are hard to come y due to the closure of many establishments. Elizabeth Kombe, 48, a widowed mother of seven , is currently begging for food to feed her family. Out of her seven children, three are living with albinism. When the Star visited her on Saturday in Viragoni, Kaloleni subcounty, Masha and her children had gone two days without food. “When my husband died five years ago, my life was shattered. He was everything to the family. But now everyone does not want to be associated with us because of the children who have albinism. They look at our family as cursed," Masha said. Apart from going without food, her three children living with albinism have nothing to protect them from the effects of the direct sunlight. “My children do not have caps or sunglasses to protect the eyes. They do not have sunscreen to protect their delicate skin from the sun,” Masha said. Her firstborn son, who is in Standard 5, has not been able to advance in school because he cannot see well on the blackboard. “I have a problem with my sight. I also have sores all over my body which sometimes hinder my concentration. I do not have shoes so sometimes walking in the scorching sun is a problem," he said, adding that he has very few friends. “Not so many people want to be associated with us because of our condition. We are treated as outcasts." Amani Disabled Self-Help Group coordinator Boniface Masha said the family has been neglected and despite their condition, the government has not extended any aid to them. “I have tried to see the family is included in the orphans and vulnerable children group but I have not been successful. When they do not have food they either call me or ask anyone to help them,” he said. He termed the condition of people living with disability in Kaloleni as dire. He expressed concerns that many people living with disability are still being hidden due to stigma. Edited by R.Wamochie