Jubilee deputy secretary general and Soy MP Caleb Kositany has hit back at Raphael Tuju for not sharing information on party spending. "I remind you that the office of the secretary general is the custodian of the documentation, party information and reports," he said in a letter dated July 22. Among the documents that the Jubilee deputy secretary general demanded on July 14 are certified bank statements for four years. However, Tuju, in a response to Kositany's demands, said the letter was  “desperate political posturing”. “I have received your letter in which you demand to be furnished with audited accounts of the Jubilee Party. You have signed off as the deputy secretary general. “All these expose an extreme form of megalomaniac behaviour. Unfortunately, in this office, we do not have the capacity or qualification to deal with such malady," said Tuju. On Wednesday, Kositany went ahead to hit out at Tuju, who accused him of misusing party stationery. "As an official, I am entitled to utilise office stationery to communicate on matters of the party. I have not and do not intend to use them for personal matters," he said. Kositany said he would be glad  if  Tuju could quote the clause in the party constitution that denies him the right to use party stationery. "The communication I have made to the counties have been implemented fully and the rights of the party leaders within  such county assemblies have been protected against your unlawful directives," he said. Kositany said it was his constitutional right to seek legal redress against illegalities committed. "...or omissions to lawful compliance by you or any other person. For your information, the cases I have filed in court are still alive," he said. Kositany said the demands made in his letter are serious governance issues. "You shall not demean my demands by being drawn into your vacuous responses," he said. "I thus still demand the same to be availed soonest for this information is not for my personal consumption. That is why I am demanding the same publicly." Two days ago, Kositany said the ruling party has handed over its roles in Parliament to opposition ODM. Kositany censured President Uhuru Kenyatta for allowing ODM to take over leadership positions in key parliamentary committees. He claimed on Citizen TV that ODM is now calling the shots in the National Assembly. Kositany's criticism of Uhuru came as reports emerged that the DP allies could be disciplined for disrespecting the President. The MP has been mentioned as among those targeted but he has indicated he is ready to face the disciplinary committee and is prepared for any consequences. Last week, President Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga took control of Parliament when their trusted allies were elected unopposed to lead key National Assembly committees.