Thika Town MP Patrick Wainaina has accused the Kiambu county government of sabotaging his projects. The MP complained that in the recent past people believed to be employees of the county government have demolished more than 10 boda boda sheds he has put up in various parts of Kiambu through his Jungle Foundation. The latest demolitions took place in Githurai and Mwihoko, in Ruiru constituency and Gatukuyu market in Gatundu North. Motorcycle operators held demonstrations to protest the demolitions. The operators accused Governor James Nyoro of being behind the move. The county chief has since dismissed the allegations as false. County director of communications Franklin Wambugu also disassociated the regional government from the demolitions. Contacted for comment, he responded, "The county is not involved in the business of demolishing the sheds. It is politics." Wainaina said, “I have been approached by boda boda operators in various parts of the county and even beyond to help them build sheds only for some people to pull them down and cart away the materials. I find it barbaric for anyone in their right mind to do this.” “I have information that those behind this shameful deed are using vehicles with county government registration numbers. My question is why would anyone destroy something that is used by our youth to fend for themselves?” Since March this year when the first Covid-19 case was announced in the country, Wainaina through his Jungle Foundation team has been going across Kiambu distributing materials to help combat the virus. This has raised questions about whether the MP is interested in a bigger political seat, with speculation rife that he is eyeing the governorship. Asked to clear the air over his political ambitions, the MP declined to say whether he would run for governor, saying his priority now is to serve Thika residents. He, however, said that he will not engage in confrontational politics as this would hurt development. “It is immoral to bring politics into matters of development. Leaders should compete in helping our people and not demolishing what another leader has constructed,” Wainaina said, adding that he will take legal action against the perpetrators. A top county official told the Star that the demolitions were conducted because the MP failed to make the necessary payments and get the right approvals from the county government. “You just don’t wake up and put up such a structure without engaging the relevant authorities. In this case he ought to have made the required payments to the county council to get approvals to undertake his work,” the official said. Nyoro's political adviser David Ngari 'Gakuyo' has often faulted Wainaina, accusing him of undermining the governor over his (the latter's) political ambitions.  Edited by A.N