Airports are ready for reopening, Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia has said. Inspecting the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport on Friday, the CS confirmed that the overall level of preparedness put in place is excellent. The airport has already installed thermal screening equipment, provided hand washing stations and more than 300 sanitisation stations. Physical distancing markers have been mounted and port health observation rooms provided. Personal protective gear especially face masks are now mandatory for all airport users. According to the CS, the measures employed at the JKIA have been replicated across all other airports in the country. “This goes to demonstrate that the aviation sector, which has been heavily impacted by Covid-19, is ready for a restart operations under new norm,” he said. On June 6, the president directed the Ministry of Transport, in consultation with various aviation stakeholders, to develop a comprehensive protocol to guide the aviation industry in the resumption of air passenger travel. Following this, Kenya Ports Authority has worked closely with port health, Kenya Civil Aviation Authority and other industry stakeholders to ensure that adequate measures have been employed. “We are optimistic about the restart of flight operations and look forward to welcoming passengers, both domestic and international, as soon as the government lifts the prevailing travel restrictions,” he said. On June 27, the Kisumu International Airport also said it is fully prepared for the resumption of operations, having put in place stringent measures to curb the spread of coronavirus. Western Region Airports manager Selina Gor said they were ready for operations once President Kenyatta reopens the airspace. Gor said they have met all the requirements outlined by the Health ministry to curb virus spread. “We are focused to ensure those using the airport are safe and free from coronavirus in line with the health standards,” Gor said. On June 29, President Uhuru Kenyatta said the government will lift intercounty lockdown in a couple of days. When lifted, the government is set to allow domestic flights. Uhuru said this at a virtual leaders’ forum on US-Africa trade convened by the Corporate Council on Africa. "We are going to start domestic flights and this is what we are going to use as our trial over the next couple of days because we are opening up the lockdown of intercounties," he said. Uhuru said this will set the pace for opening up the skies in readiness for international flights. "If you don't take precautions, opening up too quickly also has its downside. We are eager to open up but also eager to stay safe and healthy. We are doing everything to ensure we are back in the sky," he added. So far Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea, Tanzania and Zambia have resumed commercial flights. The 15-member Economic Community of West African States is expected to open their airspace on July 21. “Air travel is vital to the economic health of countries,” said Dr Matshidiso Moeti, WHO Regional Director for Africa, in a virtual press briefing on Saturday. WHO said it is important that countries have systems in place at points of entry including airports. “The resumption of commercial flights in Africa will facilitate the delivery of crucial supplies such as testing kits, personal protective equipment and other essential health commodities to areas which need them most,” Dr Moeti said. “It will also ensure that experts, who can support the response can finally get on the ground and work.”  