 Scientists have begun conducting surveillance and research on potato diseases that have been blamed for the dwindling yields. Dr Joseph Mulema, a senior scientist at CABI centre in Nairobi, is leading a team of scientists conducting the surveillance exercise to identify and map the distribution of species which cause blackleg and soft rots that in turn cause ring rot. Mulema said potato production has consistently reduced over the last decade from 22 tonnes per hectare in 2008 to 8.6/ha in 2018. Data from the National Potato Council of Kenya shows the country is the fourth highest potato producer in Africa after Algeria, Egypt, and South Africa but with the lowest yield per acre amongst these countries. “The country also has the fourth-lowest yield (8.6 t/ha) in East Africa, marginally better than Uganda at 4.3 t/ha. Potato is a key crop in Kenya’s economy, contributing almost Sh3.2 billion annually. The sector employs approximately 3.3 million people, of which around 800,000 are smallholder farmers – the majority of whom are rural poor and involved directly in production,” the data shows. CABI is working with partners including the Ministry of Agriculture, Kenya Plant Health Inspectorate Services, Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organisation, International Potato Center, National Potato Council of Kenya, University of Nairobi and TechnoServe to step up the fight against a range of devastating potato diseases which are threatening to decimate the yields of nearly a million smallholder farmers. “Pests and diseases contribute to an estimated 80 per cent reduction in production which threatens improved seed availability and food security. Some of the diseases are difficult and expensive to manage and there is limited information on their nature, occurrence and impact,” Mulema said. He said potato diseases have spread to most of the traditional producing regions because most farmers recycle their seeds. The spread has limited the availability of disease-free zones for improved seed production. “However, not only is there low availability of disease-free seed but poor agronomic practices, declining soil fertility, low usage of agro-inputs and abiotic factors such as drought, as well as high pest incidence. All these contribute towards declining yields,” Mulema said. He said information gained from the project is important to allow for the detection and monitoring of target pathogens, preventing their introduction or managing them if present, as well as supporting market access and trade in potatoes. “We hope the aims of the project will ultimately promote trading partners’ confidence by ensuring the availability of current and reliable information on the status of the target pathogens in Kenya; update the regulated pest list and technically justifiable import requirements for the host commodity,” he said. So far, the project has developed a protocol for the identification of blackleg, tuber soft rots and ring rot diseases. This was followed by a fact-finding mission which aimed at explaining the rationale of the potato disease surveillance exercise and shared the surveillance protocol with officials from the six selected counties of Elgeyo Marakwet, Meru, Nakuru, Narok, Nyandarua, and Trans Nzoia. The project funded by Wageningen Centre for Development Innovation is expected to fill gaps in data availability on disease prevalence, provide a regulatory framework for certification and recommend measures for better management and control of the diseases.  Edited by P.O