Musalia Mudavadi Wycliffe Musalia Mudavadi could be the most senior politician from Western. He was the seventh Vice President in 2002 and s Deputy Prime Minister from 2008 to 2012 when he resigned to run for president. The Amani National Congress leader first became an MP in 1989 at age 29 when he was elected unopposed to  the Sabatia seat vacated by his father, Moses Mudavadi, after his death. Mudavadi, now 58, was the shortest serving vice president, working under President Daniel Moi from November 2002 to January 2o03. Sometimes called “the gentleman of Kenyan politics,” Mudavadi calls himself the  voice of the opposition. He has made blunders in his career. When LDP was teaming up with the National Alliance Party of Kenya of Mwai Kibaki to form Narc, Mudavadi  returned to Kanu. He ignored the Raila Odinga-led rebellion when members stormed out of Kanu, and lost his Sabatia seat in 2007. Mudavadi remains a  man to watch in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s succession. He maintains his focus is on revamping ANC in preparation for 2022 though some regard him as a compromise candidate.To him, every vote counts and he would welcome Uhuru's backing, despite being duped by Uhuru years back. Political strategist Advice Mundalo said Mudavadi is an obvious force in Western owing to his long service and no-conflict demeanour. This resonates with Western people who value peace, the 'Mulembe  people'. But Mudavadi must rethink his strategy as he often comes across as weak, Mundalo said, while he must struggle to maintain neutrality. He is largely perceived as the leader with great potential to rise to power. Mundalo said the Luhya nation is yet to find a better community leader and presidential candidate. “Musalia is second to none, but he must come out more as a fighter for the throne, not a worthy king awaiting external endorsement." Moses Wetang’ula Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetan’gula,63, joined politics in 1992 as a Nominated Kanu MP for Sirisia. He served in the National Assembly from 2002 until 2013. He was assistant Minister for Foreign Affairs from 2003 to 2008 and Trade minister from March 2012 to April 2013. He was elected to the Senate in 2013, representing Bungoma county, and was Senate Minority leader from April 2013 to March 2018. Wetang'ula left his ministerial post in October 2010 due to investigations into  the Kenyan Tokyo embassy scandal. He was absolved of wrongdoing and returned to the ministry in August 2011. When Vice President Michael Wamalwa Kijana died in 2003, Ford Kenya elected Musikari Kombo to succeed him. During the 2007 elections, Ford Kenya aligned with Mwai Kibaki's Party of National Unity. Wetang'ula became the leader of the party in March 2011, elected by the National Delegates Congress. His is fighting a leadership struggle after some party leaders attempted to remove him. Strategist Mundalo said Wetang’ula is not a push over in Bungoma politics. “His political mastery for the politics of Bungoma is second to none. Unfortunately, his concentration in this region starves him of any worthwhile support from other counties with Western," he said. Wetang’ula hasn't done well in mentoring young leaders from the region. “This has made it extremely easy for the coup plotters since he doesn't enjoy the support of an aggressive youthful force,” he said. In terms of Luhya regional kingship, Wetang’ula is second only to Mudavadi, he said. Wycliffe Oparanya The Kakamega governor, 64, has been in the headlines for his numerous meetings to unite Western. He says he is working with President Uhuru Kenyatta to bring meaningful change The governor denies he is fighting for the Luhya spokesman position and says he is just pushing for development and revival of stalled projects. Oparanya is a certified public accountant and a member of the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya. He has 23 years of experience in local and international finance management, audit and business consultancy. He joined politics in 2002, defeating university don Amukoa Anangwe to win the Butere parliamentary seat. Oparanya’s popularity during the 2002 polls was boosted by his youth soccer programme. He was Minister of State for Planning, National Development & Vision 2030 from 2008 to 2013. The ODM deputy party leader represented the constituency until 2013 when he won the Kakamega governor's seat. He was overwhelmingly reelected in 2017. Mundalo said Oparanya, despite his remarkable performance, can hardly sell himself beyond Kakamega as he is a little above lightweight but far from a heavyweight. “The support he enjoys today is pegged to his proximity to Raila Odinga, including his governorship and chair of the Council of Governors," he said. He is unlikely to become a regional kingpin, he said. Eugene Wamalwa Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, 51, is emerging as an influential figure in Western. He has been going around the region calling for unity ahead of 2022. Until January 2018, Wamalwa was Cabinet Secretary for Water and Irrigation. He is also a former minister for Justice, having been admitted to the bar in 1995 and then entering private legal practice. He represented Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni in the 2001 presidential election petition filed by opposition leader Kizza Besigye. A brother of former Vice President Michael Kijana Wamalwa, he first tried his hand at politics in 2003. The death of his brother in 2003 vacated the Saboti MP seat. Wamalwa ran in the by-election on the little-known Republican Party of Kenya ticket but was defeated by Davies Nakitare of Narc. He ran again for the Saboti seat on a Ford Kenya ticket under the PNU umbrella and won. He was interested in running for president in 2013 but decided to support Mudavadi under the Amani Coalition, an alliance of  ‎UDF, Kanu and New Ford Kenya. Political analyst Joseph Mutua said Wamalwa has been pushing the agenda of President Kenyatta in Western. He said Uhuru wants to remain active in politics after he retires and for that reason is securing his interests in Western. “Wamalwa is playing clever politics. He does not want to be seen as directly engaging in Western politics. He has been well-advised on how to go about it so he does not find himself in trouble," he said. Francis Atwoli Firebrand trade unionist Francis Atwoli, 71, lately has been mobilising and hosting leaders from Western at his homes as the region as he seeks to solidify its prospects in2022. A recent meeting at his Kajiado home was attended by all Western governors, 34 MPs and six senators who pledged to support the BBI agenda of the President and Raila. The Cotu secretary general has since contracted the University of Nairobi to come up with poll findings to declare the Luhya kingpin. In 2017 Atwoli declared Mudavadi the Luhya kingpin. Now he's trying again. Atwoli has been Cotu boss since he was first elected in 2001. He is on the board of the National Social Security Fund, a member of the governing body of the International Labour Organisation in Geneva and president of the Pan African Labour Movement, among other positions. Mutua said Atwoli is pushing Raila's agenda in Western. "That's  why he is so popular, more than some politicians," he said. Atwoli is also working with the blessings of the President as demonstrated by his recent meetings with the head of state.