Residents of Usigu in Bondo subcounty, Siaya, will soon be able to access justice near them after the Judiciary granted their request to build a court in the area. In 2018, elders of Yimbo community who occupy Usigu division presented a memorandum to Chief Justice David Maraga during his visit. They requested the establishment of a court to ease their burden of traveling to Bondo town. Usigu division has a vast mainland with Mageta, Mahanga and Sifu islands on Lake Victoria. Speaking during site inspection on Wednesday, Fred Momanyi, an officer of the Judiciary, said the Chief Justice had approved construction of the court. Momanyi said a temporary mobile court would be set up immediately with the help of the area court users committee as construction of a permanent facility begins. “You do not have to wait for a fully-fledged court to be constructed as is the wish of the Judiciary. A temporary mobile court will be established immediately in consultation with area CUC to save the people from the burden of having to travel to Bondo for their cases,” Momanyi said. He urged area MP Gideon Ochanda to spearhead modalities of establishing a court to serve the community. The official told the community to consider allocating at least one acre for the court as stipulated in Judiciary guidelines. “What I have seen during site inspection is not enough to establish a court. We have to take care of future expansion and the guidelines require one or two acres,” Momanyi said. He asked the MP to consider allocating funds for the court since the community may have to wait too long if funding is left to the Judiciary. “Bondo subcounty already has a court in Bondo town. The Judiciary’s goal is to have one court in all the 290 subcounties in the country. It will not be easy for Bondo to get two courts soon as other subcounties have none. Your MP must work out a formula through NG-CDF to have a court for the benefit of your people,” Momanyi said. “Because this place is far from Bondo, we have had many cases of people being rearrested for failing to present themselves in Bondo. These numbers should go down if the services are available closer to the people," Ochanda said.  Edited by Henry Makori