Governors want the new formula proposed for the allocation of revenue to counties reviewed to avoid funding hitches. Council of Governors' chair Wycliffe Oparanya said the proposal by the Commission on Revenue Allocation would hurt counties that will get less money than they had budgeted for. Though his county will get about Sh1 billion more, the Kakamega governor joined at least 10 county chiefs who have opposed the new method. He said some counties could lose huge amounts if the formula, which would enable the governments to share Sh316.5 billion equitably, is approved. “I am speaking as the Council of Governors' chair. They should come up with a formula that will balance allocations. If you lose a small amount, that will be okay because you will be able to implement your budget,” he said. The formula has led to stalemate as senators are divided over the right approach to take in sharing the revenue. Central Kenya leaders have backed the proposal while those from marginalised, arid and semi-arid areas have opposed it strongly. There have also been calls to suspend the proposed formula until the next financial year. Article 217 (1) of the Constitution mandates the Senate to determine the formula once every five years. Oparanya said that some counties could lose up to Sh2 billion, which would make adjustments very difficult. “If these counties knew earlier, they would have made adjustments but then again, losing Sh2 billion is not something small,” he said. Nandi Senator Samson Cherarkey welcomed the new formula. He said some counties have been “suffering for a long time.” Nominated Senator Isaac Mwaura said no county would end up losing if the proposed formula is approved. “Counties which gained unfairly are simply being told they cannot continue like that. All counties are getting the minimum that is required to run a devolved unit,” he added. Mwaura said a county like Kiambu cannot continue to get the same amount with some counties in Northern Kenya yet its population is very huge. “Money should not be allocated to a landmass. Money should be allocated to people,” he said. Nominated Senator Naomi Waqo said the formula should be shelved as counties had already prepared their budgets. “Most of the counties that stand to lose with the new formula are marginalised. The timing is not good at all,” she said. Oparanya told the Star that the formula is beneficial to counties with huge populations. “They are the ones to get more money. Money is going where people are,” he said. At least 21 senators drawn from the arid and semi-arid counties have opposed the formula, saying it will disenfranchise and further marginalise their areas. Some 10 county chiefs from the areas have also petitioned the national government to shelve, for one year, the implementation of a new revenue sharing formula. Garissa, Wajir, Marsabit, Isiolo, Samburu, Turkana, Tana River, West Pokot, Lamu and Mandera will collectively lose Sh17 billion. Wajir would lose Sh 2 billion, Marsabit and Mandera KSh 1.9 billion each while Garissa will forgo Sh1.6 billion and Tana River Sh1.5 billion. Uasin Gishu, Nakuru, Kiambu, Nandi and Kakamega counties would get more allocations. (edited by o. owino)