Farmers in Lari constituency in Kiambu county have been urged to adopt modern farming methods and see farming as a business to reap better profits. The constituency, which has five wards – Kijabe, Kinale, Kamburu, Nyanduma and Kirenga– feeds Nairobi with vegetables such as spinach, kales, cabbages, carrots and different types of fruits. Farmers in the area, which has conducive weather and fertile soil, also grow tea and practice dairy farming. “Our farmers must now start dreaming agribusiness. Our region is fertile, it's near Nairobi town where we can get a market for fresh produce,” Kamburu MCA George Gathuru said on Monday. The ward rep said he will lead the county government in educating people on how to practice agribusiness, not only in Kamburu, but in the whole constituency so that residents can reap good profits from their farms. The MCA spoke at Kikuyu Council of Elder’s shrine in Matimbei block of Uplands Forest, in his ward. He had attended prayers for the country and the end of the coronavirus. The prayers were led by subcounty chairman Njoroge Mairu. Gathuru, however, said roads in the constituency need to be improved for farming activities to be successful. “Poor roads are affecting our farming activities since transport and farming go hand in hand,” he said. The MCA said efforts to have the government improve roads have been futile. Kamburu and Nyanduma have the poorest roads, he said. “The only tarmac road which exists in the area is Moi Road which was constructed in 1984 and in the 1990s it developed potholes and has never been repaired. Can you call it tarmac anymore?” he asked. However, the MCA thanked President Uhuru Kenyatta for the construction of the 540km Mau Mau road that will connect Kiambu, Nyandarua, Murang’a and Nyeri counties. Of the 540km, some 85km will pass through villages and trading centres in Lari constituency. Lari residents have in the past said they are happy that 85km will pass through the area, adding that it will ease movement. Edited by A.N