Kenyan striker Albert Muema has set himself a 15-goal target for MFK Lokomotíva Zvolen when the Slovakian league kicks-off on August 2. Muema signed for the Division Three club from Serbian First Division side FK Sindeljic at the end of last season but was yet to show his potential after the league was ended prematurely due to coronavirus pandemic. But with the new season set to start on August 2, Muema, who also featured for Kenyan Premier League (KPL) club Tusker, is targeting to score 15 goals and above and help his team to earn promotion to Division Two. “It has been tough for me since signing for MFK Zvolen but I am coping well now. I was about to start the second half of the season in March when COVID-19 struck and spoiled everything,” Muema told Goal on Friday. “It was very tough because, after the winter break, we were forced to take pay cuts due to the pandemic affecting club finances, but now we have started pre-season training and I have regained my scoring touch with four goals and two assists in four games.” “I feel good when I head into the new season with such a good form and my target now is to make sure I score at least 15 goals and help my team to achieve our targets for the season. I also want to score in every game that we play as from next season and by God’s grace I would love to see myself playing consistently in a top European league.” Muema has enjoyed a good start to pre-season as he scored his first goal and assisted one in a 3-0 win against FK Lieskovec, scored again twice in their second friendly with an assist as they beat FK Salkova 4-0. In the third game, they lost 2-0 against FK Podkonice but recovered to beat FK Banska Stiavnica 4-2 where he scored once. Muema now believes his rise to form is because of staying calm, training according to coach’s instructions and his ambitions to cement his place in European football. “I really struggled when I arrived here but now I have become a regular and getting the goals is one of my priorities. I just want to keep the form going into the new season, I have strived to make it here and I think I have the chance now to prove myself right,” Muema continued. “I want to show people that I deserve to play here and for this great team. I want to fight for the team when given the chance [to play]. We must achieve our targets for the new season and I want to lead from the front.” On whether the cancellation of the league affected his plans with the team, Muema said: “Of course yes…it did. Coronavirus affected my plans because I could not achieve the targets I had set for the season and now I am forced to execute the same plans for next season.” Playing under coach Milos Foltan, Muema will be hoping to start in their next match when MFK Zvolen takes on TJ Sklotatran Poltar in the first round of the Slovak Cup on Saturday before they open their league campaign with a clash against FK Jednota Banova on August 2.