The Wiper party has said it is not worried about the reconstitution of committees in Parliament, where it got only two vice-chair slots. Party vice chair Victor Swanya told the Star on Thursday that they strongly support the clean-up in Parliament to help President Uhuru Kenyatta deliver on his agenda. Swanya, a key ally of the Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka, said the relationship between the party and President Uhuru is much bigger than getting parliamentary leadership posts. “We did not sign the cooperation agreement to share positions but to support the President's agenda in and outside Parliament during the remaining period of his term,” Swanya said. Mwingi Central MP Gideon Mulyungi will be the vice chair in the National Cohesion and Equal Opportunity Committee in the changes. Kibwezi East MP Jesica Mbalu was retained as the vice-chairperson in the Public Accounts Committee of the National Assembly. However, there were claims of disquiet among Wiper MPs who felt the party got a raw deal in parliamentary panels despite having a cooperation agreement with Jubilee. Raila Odinga's ODM party which has no pen-to-paper agreement with Jubilee was, however, the biggest winner in the sharing of the leadership slots. The restructuring of committees enabled the President and Raila to tighten their grip on Parliament ahead of the BBI report. However, on Thursday, Swanya disputed reports of jitters in Wiper saying they are far-fetched and aimed at trying to paint the party in bad light. “Our working relationship with his excellency the President is of much bigger interest than just getting or not getting certain positions in Parliament,” he said. The former Kitutu Masaba Parliamentary aspirant said the Wiper cooperation agreement with President Uhuru's Jubilee administration is solid and strong. “Wiper entered into an agreement with the President to strengthen his resolve to deliver on his big four agenda and the Building Bridges Initiative,” he added. National Assembly deputy minority leader and Kathiani MP Robert Mbui also denied that Wiper had been short-changed. Mbui said Wiper will remain steadfast behind the BBI and the handshake to address the underlying issues affecting the country. “As our party leader has previously stated, we didn't come into the working arrangement to meet certain short term gains but to objectively help the President in his national unity agenda,” he said. ODM'S Gladys Wanga will chair the Finance and Economic Planning committee while Busia Woman Representative Florence Mutua head the Education panel. Raila's allies landed plum posts as Rarieda MP Otiende Amolo became the vice-chair in the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee while Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma was made the vice-chair of the Constitution Implementation Oversight panel. (edited by o. owino)