A prominent figure in the public service described by many as a no-nonsense man has suddenly become the talk of the town. Why? The man, in charge of a national government agency, is said to be having an illicit affair with an MCA. Those in the know say the man has built a team of MCAs around him and with whom he spends a lot of time in his office, chewing miraa. It was during one of these ‘miraa chewing’ sessions that he won himself a beauty – a first-term ward rep. The big man should perhaps learn from the Clinton-Lewinsky scandal. Yes, the power of the fairer gender has brought down kings. It’s not in doubt that some civil servants abhor transfers to perpetuate graft in their ministries. Recent cases in the Ministry of Health where some refused to move is just but an example. Sources now whisper to Corridors that some civil servants in the Ministry of Interior have stayed in one station for over 20 years. There are swirling concerns about productivity, as well as integrity — maybe this is a matter that Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho and the Public Service Commission should look at. A Tangatanga-allied MP from Mt Kenya region could be planning to ditch Deputy President William Ruto in the coming days. The vocal MP is said to have held secret meetings with some Kieleweke MPs. The night meetings attended by a vocal nominated lawmaker are said to be scheming how the MP would jump ship. It has emerged that the plot has been going on for a long time and is linked to some road projects in the MP’s constituency. The Ruto ally was allegedly warned that he risked having some ongoing road projects in his electoral area delayed or stopped altogether. More MPs allied to Ruto from Mt Kenya could be targeted, with a group of loyal MPs to President Uhuru Kenyatta said to be engaged in behind-the-scenes manoeuvres to lobby them. Strategy meetings usually happen at a five-star hotel within Nairobi’s Upper Hill area. A well-known diplomat from the Mount Kenya region who is also said to be eyeing a governor’s position in his county could be facing a criminal charge any time soon. Corridors has learnt that the man, who at one time held a top position in government, was declared bankrupt many months ago. This was after he failed to clear a debt. However, he didn’t disclose the same and has been receiving salaries.