Youth in Kiambu county on Saturday denounced the ‘immature’ turf wars between Governor James Nyoro and Thika Town MP Patrick Wainaina. “We call on our leaders to engage in mature politics,” Theuri Theuri Wanjiru, chairman of Kiambu Youth for change, told a press conference. The young told their elected leaders to cool it, saying people are suffering because of their ambitions that stall development. Another youth said Nyoro is not above impeachment. The youths called themselves “Wanjiku’s private auditors” and said they will vote out selfish leaders. Nyoro and Wainaina have publicly accused each other of sabotage involving development projects. Wainaina has accused Nyoro of ordering enforcement officers to demolish over 10 boda boda sheds he constructed through his Jungle Foundation in Ruiru, Gatundu South and Gatundu North constituencies. Nyoro is accusing Wainaina of hijacking and sabotaging projects he initiated through the Kiambu county government. Kiambu Youth for Change said early politics is distracting leaders from helping young people – and everyone. “We are saddened by the demolition of the very projects that help youths eke out a livelihood, just for their own reasons. We are not interested in who brought what, we are only interested in projects to improve our lives,” Theuri said. He said young people will not condone political tension that deters well-wishers and NGOs from helping society. “The bureaucracies the county is putting in place are of no help to us. They are meant to lock out other people from aiding Kiambu residents. It’s sad well-wishers need permission from the governor to help Kiambu people,” Theuri said. Philip Kamau from Lari subcounty said leaders should pool resources to help people instead of engaging in confrontational politics. “We’ve witnessed these divisive politics for a very long time in Kiambu. That’s why some leaders were voted out. “The governor should know he’s not immune to impeachment and therefore should concentrate on his work and help others in their development work,” Kamau said. Njuguna Mwangi called county youth “Wanjiku’s private auditors”. He said they will track every project by the county and lawmakers to ensure all monies channeled to the county and CDF are spent prudently. “We won’t sit back and watch as leaders mismanage public resources. We will be raising the alarm whenever we identify mismanagement,” Mwangi said. He added, “We are aware the county is only riding on projects funded by the World Bank. We are watching and eagerly waiting to see it initiates projects with funds it gets from the national Treasury.” Wanjiru Kiguta from Tigoni called on Kiambu leaders to do their work and wait for the right time to engage in politics. A week ago, Governor Nyoro, his deputy Joyce Ngugi, political adviser David ‘Gakuyo’ Ngari and Thika township ward rep Andrew Kimani took the battle to Wainaina’s doorstep. The claimed the MP was out to distract the administration from delivering to the people because of his political ambitions. Governor Nyoro plans to defend his seat in 2022 and the Thika MP has is expected to be his fiercest rival. He has become a darling to many people because of his philanthropic works countywide. The governor says he should stick to his own constituency. Wainaina recently said that he will not engage in confrontational politics as it will be hurt development and undermine President Uhuru Kenyatta’s development agenda. (Edited by V. Graham) 