The government has spent Sh1 billion in food distribution to people affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, Devolution Principal Secretary Charles Sunkuli has said. He said about 14 million Kenyans need relief food. Sunkuli made the remarks at Loita ward, Narok South Sub County, on Saturday, where he distributed food worth Sh9.5 million and face masks worth Sh400,000, for 6,000 households to five sub locations in the ward. In attendance were Wildlife PS Prof Fred Segor, Ewaso Nyiro South Development Authority Managing Director Ngala Oloitiptip, Maasai Mara University council chairman Dr Kennedy ole Kerei, MCAs Charles Nkiton (Loita), Gabriel Mibei (Angata Barrikoi), and Michael Seme (Lolgorian). The food will be distributed by the local chiefs and village elders, who are expected to identify the most vulnerable families which should be given the first priority. “One of the challenges which have been brought by coronavirus is vulnerability in all aspects of life, with food insecurity being the most affected in the household level. As Devolution ministry we have mapped out the vulnerable groups, which ranges from moderate to severe across the country. We have tried our best to assist them by providing relief food to them,” said Sunkuli. The PS said that the government is committed in ensuring that no citizen sleeps hungry during the pandemic. He urged the county governments and Kenyans to invest in kitchen gardens so that every family can have a constant supply of food. “The national government might not provide enough food to all the affected people and the counties should assist us in ensuring that there is constant supply of food production. We have come here not only to give you food but to sensitise you on how to be self-sufficient,” said Sunkuli. While urging Kenyans to follow health guidelines to avert Covid-19, Sunkuli also called on counties to put measures and re-opened all markets. Segor said his department will employ more rangers to avoid the increasing human-wildlife conflicts. Segor said since 2014, the government has given out Sh120 million to Narok residents as compensation for relatives killed by wild animals and Sh10 million compensation in the last one month for those injured by wild animals. “The cases which have been compensated are 24 out of the reported 51 cases in Narok and we will strive to compensate all the affected families by the end of the year,”  said Segor. He called on area residents living around the wildlife to fence their farms and homesteads to keep off animals.