DP William Ruto’s allies have dismissed as fake the endorsement of his rival Gideon Moi by some Kanu and church leaders in Eldoret on Sunday. The Baringo Ssenator was at Kenmosa for an  inter-denominational prayer meeting hosted by the Nandi Kanu branch and a section of clergy and elders . They endorsed Gideon and prayed for him to run for the presidence in 2022. They called him a humble,  accessible and focused leader. But Ruto allies led by Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi termed the event fake because it had been hosted by some people who never attend any church. “Looking at the photos during the event at Kenmosa, I have never seen these people in any church. They are the latest conmen in town and political rejects of Kanu," Sudi tweeted. The church leaders who prayed for Gideon were led by chairman of the pastors and bishops in the region Bishop Wilson Kurui and retired Anglican Bishop of Eldoret Thomas Kogo. The event was also attended by Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos, Ainabkoi MP William Chepkut and his Moiben counterpart Silas Tiren, among others. The bishops urged Gideon to be courageous and  not fear anything in pursuit of leadership. Some political leaders said Gideon was best suited to succeed President Kenyatta following the coalition agreement between Kanu and Jubilee. “I am here and strongly behind Gideon. I will not be shaken by anyone," Tiren said. But a section of youth led by Paul Chumba dismissed Gideon as a lightweight who would not be able to face off with Ruto. “People should not push Gideon to be what he is not. Leadership is from the people and he knows very well that residents of Rift Valley are fully behind DP Ruto," Chumba said. Gideon did not talk politics at the event, only urging Kenyans to strictly adhere to measures to control Covid-19. Gideon met the church leaders and Kanu officials from Nandi in his strategy to woo the region considered DP Ruto’s political stronghold. Kanu recently signed a coalition agreement in which the party is now backing Jubilee both in and outside Parliament. Kanu officials led by David Chepsiror, who is branch chairman in Uasin Gishu, said they would host more meetings for Gideon in the region. Tolgos. Tiren and Chepkut along with Cherangany MP Joshua Kutuny and Tiati MP William Kamket are close allies of the Baringo senator. “When you see us working closely with Gideon, we know what is going on in this country and which route to take for the good of our people," Tiren said. (Edited by V. Graham)