The Meteorological Department has warned that strong winds at the Coast and Eastern may blow off roofs, uproot trees and cause structural damages. Very high waves may lower visibility, cause capsizing of boats and threaten the safety of those engaging in water sports and recreational activities. In an alert released on Tuesday, the department said the wind speed is expected to strengthen to more than 40 knots on Friday and reduce to 30 knots on Saturday. “The wave height is likely to be more than three metres over the Kenya coastal waters on Friday and is expected to reduce to 2.5 metres on Sunday. “The counties expected to be affected include Marsabit, Turkana, Samburu, Mandera, Wajir, Isiolo, Garissa, Kitui, Makueni, Taita Taveta, Tana River, Lamu, Kilifi, Mombasa and Kwale,” Met said. The weather department advised residents in all mentioned areas to be on the lookout for potential strong winds and very large waves over the Indian Ocean. “Those in the areas of concern should be on high alert. People are urged to continue listening to local media as updates will be provided if conditions change significantly. Further advisories may be issued as we follow the progress of these weather events,” the alert said. However, rainfall will persist over parts of the Lake Victoria Basin, the Highlands West of the Rift Valley, the Central and South Rift Valley, the Highlands East of the Rift Valley and the Northwest. These counties include Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Nairobi, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu, Tharaka, Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu. The five-day weather forecast further indicated that most of the counties in the Northeast, the Coastal strip and the Southeast lowlands are likely to remain dry. “Strong southerly winds are expected over the Northwest and the eastern half of the country. The Highlands East of the Rift Valley (including Nairobi) are likely to experience occasional cool and cloudy conditions,” the forecast stated. Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa, Isiolo, Kitui, Makueni, Machakos, Kajiado and Taita Taveta counties will experience sunny intervals in the mornings and afternoons while the nights will be partly cloudy and showers over few places.  