If I get a chance to meet with President Uhuru Kenyatta, I will still ask him to appoint the 41 judges, Chief Justice David Maraga said on Wednesday. Speaking during the launch of the Judiciary's e-filing portal, the CJ said he is still around because "we have quite a bit of work to do”, hinting that he will not retire before his term expires. "The president of Law Society of Kenya spoke like he was bidding me goodbye but I am still here," he said. "When a judge retires, they get a letter to go on leave from the Chief Registrar of Judiciary which I think will be in November." The CJ further said he plans to rest after his retirement and thereafter decide what to do. He said that the launch of the digital court is one of his biggest achievements which will go a long way in ensuring efficiency of courts and cut down on pilferage of fees. “Today is a great day for the Judiciary and the administration of justice. It marks the single most significant step in our long journey to harnessing IT as an integral part of the delivery of services to our people.” “This system, I am proud to say, has been designed, developed and implemented by our very own Judiciary’s Directorate of ICT. It is expected to significantly impact on the speed, accuracy and efficiency of service delivery.” Under the new electronic system, all lawyers, police, DPP and members of the public are required to register through a portal to log into the Judiciary system. The portal is on https://efiling.court.go.ke. After logging in, one is expected to upload documents and also assess court fees. Payment of court filing fees will be done via M-Pesa or credit cards online. Subsequently, one has to submit the files to the registry online for the matter to be filed and placed before a judge for hearing. The Judiciary will allow the public to peruse court files online upon payment of requisite fees, the CJ said. Also, litigants will be allowed to track their cases filing to conclusion. A case tracking system has already been introduced in 60 courts and remaining 72 will be installed by October. “Clients can activate that through SMS using tracking number and they will be told what's happening in their case instead of travelling to the court.” Maraga said there will be no going back to analogue adding that the Judiciary has been conducting digital training for staff. "But there are fears of the unknown. A fellow judge, when asked for his email address, said it's confidential. He passes the message very well that he doesn't know what we are talking about." The new system will enable fast filing and retrieval of cases, better record management and better disaster recovery with reduced risk of loss of files and reduced space requirements. Those who want to modify documents physically will not be able to as there will be an audit trail for accountability. The CJ further said that in order to continue operation of the digital system and its rolling out to different stations countrywide, the Judiciary needs between Sh500 million to Sh700 million per year for ICT. The number of days taken in dispute resolution will drastically reduce and in turn act as an incentive for investors, Maraga said. Currently a commercial dispute of Sh500,000 takes 465 days to be resolved in Kenya whereas in other jurisdictions it can take 200 days. East African Community CS Adan Mohammed also noted this observation, saying Kenya is ranked position 56 out of 190 countries. Six years ago, Kenya was ranked 147. During the launch, chief registrar Anne Amadi said the journey to digitise courts faced challenges including resistance and thin resources among others. Meanwhile, LSK president Nelson Havi has called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to ensure the Judiciary is properly funded. He further requested a bill to develop a proper framework for e-filing. Havi said the bill will shield the digital courts from abuse. "Judges have been subject of abuse through social media and soon, doctored judgments might appear in social media.” Havi said all attempts in the past have failed, but Covid-19 has pushed stakeholders to embrace digitisation of courts. So far, 170 advocates have filed their cases via the e-filing portal. DPP Noordin Haji lauded the digitisation saying it will lead to reduced corruption. His office will now file charge sheets and disclose witness statements via e-filing. Haji said there's a need for people to adapt quickly to digital change, urging stakeholders to take collective responsibility to ensure e-filing works. Edited by R.Wamochie