Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala has said he will not be threatened or intimidated by his expulsion from ANC, but will maintain his silence over the matter. "I will not be intimidated by the decision to kick me out of the party because I know leadership comes from God, not from a party," he said. The lawmaker urged ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi to be kind to those under him and treat them well, adding that a good father does not kick his children out of the house in the name of disciplining them. "I'm like a son to you and you don't have to beat, punch and kick me out. By the grace of God, I have risen from a one-term MCA, county assembly speaker, senator to Senate Deputy Minority leader. Why would you want to take away all these gains that I have worked so hard for in a day?" Malala asked. He said that he and Mudavadi were walking two different paths in terms of leadership positions. "My take concerning the expulsion from my party is to maintain silence because my destiny is not to be the President of this country. All I want is to serve my people of Kakamega as a senator and deliver them from the shackles of poverty," Malala said. The legislator said he would train his eye on his goal and would not respond to detractors. "When you are set on a journey you do not respond to the barking of every dog on your way because you might never reach your destination," Malala said. The senator said he would continue supporting Luhya leaders, including Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka and Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli on rooting for the development of Western region. Last Friday, the Amani National Congress Governing Council approved Malala's expulsion after he failed to respond to charges levelled against him by the party’s disciplinary committee. In a statement, the party accused Malala of sidelining it even after helping him clinch the senator's seat in the 2017 General Election. The party accused the first-time senator of being disloyal. The party said it had followed due process, including inviting the senator to appear before the disciplinary committee of the party, which he declined. “The special meeting of the NGC hereby adopts and ratifies the resolution of the internal disciplinary committee of the party and NEC expelling Cleophas Malala from the party membership,” read part of the party’s resolution. The disciplinary committee had recommended the expulsion of Malala from the party. “The committee finds and holds that your utterances and activities at the political rally convened by the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) at Kibra on October 27, 2019, prejudiced the integrity and reputation of the ANC party and its members and employees.” NGC unanimously adopted the disciplinary committee’s resolutions. Edited by A.N 