Four Football Kenya Federation (FKF) presidential aspirants have thrown a spanner into the works after calling on government agencies to investigate and prosecute the current regime over alleged malpractices at Kandanda House. Lodvick Aduda, Nicholas Musonye, Twaha Mbarak and Sammy Sholei called on the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, the Director of Public Prosecutions and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to force the incumbent, Nick Mwendwa, to shed more light on the how they spent the Sh244m allocated to the national team Harambee Stars for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations as well as the unresolved  Outside Broadcasting (OB) van saga. The aspirants reached out to Cabinet Secretary for Sports Amina Mohamed to institute the process of auditing FKF accounts . They also called on the Sports Registrar to invoke Section 52 of the Sports Act and institute an inspection of the books of FKF and submit the inspection report to Amina's office. At the same time, the quartet urged the Sports Disputes Tribunal to reignite the round-table meeting meant to unlock the elections stalemate. FKF had earlier snubbed the meeting  in the guise that they were awaiting Fifa's directives.  The aspirants also called on sponsors and corporates to exercise caution while dealing with the current regime. They claimed that the mandate of the current office bearers expired in February and corporates should be careful while dealing with them. Earlier, Sports Disputes Tribunal had ruled  FKF elections  null and void, stating that the mandate of the National Executive Committee had ended on February 10 while sub-branch and branch officials service had ceased being in charge on  January 26. Subsequently,  there was a ruling by the SDT on March 17, which ended NEC’s term after failing to conduct elections in line with the provisions of the Sports Act and Article 38 and 81 of the Constitution of Kenya. Meanwhile, Aduda has rubbished reports suggesting that they were mulling forming a coalition to oust Mwendwa. The Gor Mahia Chief Executive Officer said the four candidates, who jointly issued the statement — in consultation with others not present — were looking to head to the polls individually. "We came up as concerned aspirants to make our joint statement regarding issues which touch on Kenyan football and the forthcoming elections.  As far as I am concerned, there are no discussions to form a coalition. Every candidate is running his own race," he said.