  The government has temporarily closed Lari Level IV Hospital in Kiambu county after one of its workers tested positive for Covid-19. The worker is a pharmacist who commutes to work from Ruiru. He tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday. Kiambu Health executive Ng'ang'a Murega on Saturday said the hospital was closed temporarily to facilitate contact tracing, fumigation and strengthening of protective measures. He said the hospital will be reopened once the county Covid-19 surveillance team clears it to resume operations. However, a source told the Star the hospital will be opened on Monday from 8 am. "We cannot talk much since we are conducting tests on our staff and we want to ensure all measures we have put in place are being followed. There is a team led by our director of medical services doing that job," the source said. The hospital which was upgraded from a health centre, mainly offers outpatient services because it does not have wards. Construction is ongoing for a 270-bed ward. Patients who sought medical attention on Saturday and Sunday were stranded. Some returned home while others sought services elsewhere. "We are shocked to learn that one of the staffers is suffering from Covid-19. We wonder how many patients he served before he discovered his condition," Kwa Mathore village resident Ruth Wangui said. The Lari Hospital was serving a bigger area after the Tigoni Subcounty Hospital in nearby Limuru constituency was converted to a Covid-19 centre for Kiambu county. Wangui called for a quick reopening of the hospital, saying private health facilities are expensive. Governor James Nyoro said some doctors in Tigoni would be transferred to Lari so that they can help attend to the expected surge in patient numbers from both Lari and Limuru subcounties. Nyoro's advisor Njoki Wamitugo asked residents to take personal care so as not to contract coronavirus. "If one sanitises, observes social distance, wear face masks and try as much as possible to stay at home, one will reduce the chances of contracting Covid-19. We should also try to eat a balanced diet as the Health ministry has advised," Wamitugo said.  Edited by P.O