Kenya's efforts to learn key lessons from experts in China on containment of coronavirus has received a major boost after the Health Ministry received video-conferencing equipment from Huawei Kenya. The equipment received yesterday was received by the Health CAS Rashid Aman at Afya House. The teleconferencing system which delivered by Fiona Pan, Deputy CEO, Public Affairs, Huawei Kenya has been useful in facilitating video calls with experts in China to learn from their experience in managing the response to the Covid-19 outbreak. “This is the third donation to the ministry that has improved communication, training and coordination during this Covid-19 pandemic,” Aman said. Kenya was the first country in Africa to hold a video-conference with Chinese Ministry of Health, custom officials and others experts using the first donated equipment on 18th March 2020. Kenyan medical teams have been holding live video conference with doctors and other medical officials in Wuhan, China to pick lessons from the country on the best way to manage the pandemic. Through the video conferences, local health officials get to share experiences with their Chinese counterparts, mainly doctors in the frontline in combating the new virus. China is seen as a good example on managing the fast spreading virus, having reduced its infections through stringent measures, thanks to the discipline and rule of law instilled in the country. Other countries that have been learning from China include Singapore, Japan and South Korea. The countries are drawing lessons from China’s principles of early detection, early quarantine and early treatment in order to halt the global spread of the coronavirus disease. Huawei, the Chinese telecommunication firm, has been committed to supporting Kenya’s response efforts. The delegation in Kenya included the African Center for Disease Control and more than 20 other Kenyan and African officials and experts. The purpose was to share information on the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and discuss the best approaches for prevention and control.