Twenty-two children in West Pokot have identified as needing urgent corrective surgery, many for bone conditions. But that's just a fraction of those in need. AIC Cure International and the West Pokot government identified the children and some adults during a three-day medical camp that ended on Monday. The event was organised by Mary Lonyangapuo, the wife of Governor John Longyangapuo, in Konyao, Chepareria and Sigor. It also identified people who need wheelchairs, crutches and other devices. Speaking at Father Leo Secondary School, Mary Lonyangapuo said doctors from the Kijabe Cure International hospital and those contracted by the county will perform corrective surgery. She said children and adults will be be helped. “The disabled are being tested and will be taken to Kijabe for the surgery. Disabled children get better faster than adults after surgery," she said. She called on parents not to hide children with disabilities because they are ashamed of them but to get help for them. “Many children are still at home. Please bring them out since we want to help them live a normal life and go to school,” she said. Lonyangapuo urged doctors to identify disabilities at birth since it is much easier to correct problems while children are young. “There are many children with physical disabilities, bone and muscle-related conditions. Many lose important milestones in life because of the untreated conditions,” AIC Cure International Development director Nelson Muoki said.  Governor Lonyangapuo said many children younger than five have disabilities and need help. “We commend Cure International for its work in corrective surgery. We are planning to do the surgeries at the county level and those with critical conditions will be transferred to Kijabe,” he said. The governor urged residents not to hide disabled children because of misguided cultural beliefs, noting that families should help them get education and medical help. “Everyone is entitled to life and integration into society and we shall help empower such children because you do not know what they can do for society tomorrow,” he said. The governor said people with disabilities have rights like everyone else to equal opportunities enshrined in Kenyan law and international conventions. (Edited by V. Graham) 