Equity has been feted as the best bank in Africa and scooped three top awards at this year’s Euromoney awards for excellence. “We are proud to receive three awards from Euromoney for our role in the community, as we continue to support our customers and clients,” said Equity Group CEO, James Mwangi. This year, Euromoney introduced The Excellence in Leadership award category that recognised the efforts made by banks in responding to the Covid-19 pandemic. Equity was recognised for its proactive involvement in initiatives that have benefited the community in which it operates, more so during the pandemic. Through its subsidiary, Equity Group Foundation with support from the Mastercard Foundation and the family of James Mwangi, Equity committed Sh1.1 billion to provide Personal Protective Equipment  to frontline medical staff. Another Sh2 million was sent to support Rwanda procure 22,250 testing kits and DRC to procure PPEs, the countries receiving Sh1 million each. The bank was recognised for excellent leadership in Africa and for the second time in a row, Africa’s best digital bank. According to Euromoney, Equity has managed a rare feat for banks on the continent, to become a domestic champion and substantial regional player in East Africa. “Under the stewardship of chief executive, James Mwangi, the Group has come a long way from a traditional brick-and-mortar institution. After two years of extensive investment in digital technology, it now better reflects the changing needs and behaviour of its customer base,” noted Euromoney in their statement. Equity won the Africa best bank award category having demonstrated its strong financial performance, differentiated business model, ability to adapt to changing market and regulatory conditions, innovativeness, and a track record of delivering on its targets to shareholders and commitment to its clients. Last year, the bank also emerged the best bank at the Think Business Banking awards and bagged 18 awards, garnering the top slots in 12 categories. Similarly, the Bank won Africa’s best digital bank award for the second time in a row validating its leadership role in digital offering, both in corporate and retail banking.