Civil societies have expressed fears of violation of human rights by the state in the country. The Civil Society Organisations (CSO) said the state has been effecting a “systematic effort” to violate citizen’s right to enjoyment of civil liberties or failure to guarantee the enjoyment of the rights. Speaking during a virtual stakeholder’s forum convened by Kenya Correspondents Association in partnership the International Centre for not profit Law (INCL), the President of Civil Society Congress/ Chairman of East Africa Civil Society Organisations Forum (EACSOF) Morris Odhiambo said the violation of human rights had been rampant during the Covid-19 period. Odhiambo said the pandemic has resulted in police brutality and lack of freedom of assembly and access to information and economic rights He said the civil societies and media has a responsibility of working together to safeguard public interest which have in recent times been constrained by the government and its agencies. Odhiambo said the conversation should be based on African practices towards civic space considering that the region has been effecting draconian laws. “The region has tendency of borrowing from each other negative practices and draconian laws that limit the rights of citizens in the region," he said. KCA chairperson Oloo Janak called for partnership of the media and the CSOs so as to safeguard the liberty of civil society groups who serve as a government watchdog. Janak said the partnership will promote the enjoyment of their rights as enshrined in the constitution. He further said the partnership will enhance the collaboration of the media and CSOs to change the narrative and perceptions of the CSOs and the media in East Africa who are meant to hold government and its agencies accountable. The media and civil society have been at the forefront in holding the state, agencies and leaders accountable and have recently faced negative narratives from the government and the public at large. Veteran journalist Kwamchetsi Makhokha said the media itself has been undermined by the focus on commercial interests at the expense of the public interest. Makhoha urged both the CSOs and the media to effectively discharge their roles of protecting the civic space.