With increased slots at the 2026 World Cup, the national team Harambee Stars has a chance to qualify for the global competition. Former Harambee Stars’ coach, Stanley Okumbi, who currently in charge of the national U-16 team, says having the youth leagues is the future of local football. “We tend to focus a lot on the senior national teams and even Premier Leagues but the future is with the youth. “It is only through the youth structures that we can begin to build our football. This is the future. If we stay on this road, we will see some good progress in the coming years,” he said. Okumbi said he believes qualification to the 2026 World Cup remains a possibility with the current cohort of players. According to Chris Amimo, who chairs the Youth Committee, it is not just by fluke that this will happen. “Already, Football Kenya Federation (FKF) is putting in place measures to ensure this happens. The first step was the establishment of the Under-13 and Under-15 leagues through-out the country,” he said, noting that they are further paying more attention to age-group national teams. “This is the way to go if we want to play in the 2026 World Cup. Previously, we didn’t have a way of identifying good players until it was too late. But today, the U-13 and U-15 leagues give an opportunity to do that. The advantage of it is that once we identify a player at that age, they can’t change as they are captured in our systems,” he explains. He said this helps to deal with age-cheating that has been rampant in local football. He said the Centre of Excellence,  established by the federation, is meant to be a conveyor belt for constant production of talent. “It is a pilot project which we came up after picking the players from different regions in the country,” he pointed out. Amimo added: “We currently have 30 players but we know this is not enough. We have also established a working relationship with schools who are encouraged to do the same and we set up standards for them.” Kisumu-based Brian Odhiambo said he is grateful for the opportunity to be in the Centre of Excellence and added that it has improved his talent. “The exposure has been great especially the opportunity to go to Spain and England. I believe this will help to increase my market value and open more opportunities in the future,” said Odhiambo.