A former sports official linked to the Sh55 million Rio Olympics scandal has denied responsibility for allowances given to journalists during the tournament. Haron Komen, a former director of administration in the Ministry of Sports, admitted to writing to Sports Kenya for an imprest of Sh22 million for one delegate. He said it was part of the support that the ministry was to give per the budget ​agreed by the committee. Komen was defending himself on Wednesday before anti​-​corruption ​c​hief ​magistrate Elizabeth Juma. Led by his lawyer Linet Opiyo, Komen said he worked in the Ministry of Interior in the Department of Refugee affairs before his move to the Sports ministry. He was transferred by Interior PS Karanja Kibicho. Komen said h​e​ was not appointed by former CS Hassan Wario ​as part of the ​steering committee that ​made the​ list of delegates to travel to Rio Olympics. He added that he only came to know about the steering committee after he was asked to attend the meeting​ to familiarise himself with​ the Ministry​'s activities​. He also said he liaised with PS Sports on very important delegates who were to travel to Rio. In December last year, anti-corruption court ruled that former Sports CS Hassan Wario and other officials charged in the scandal had a case to answer. Magistrate Juma said she was satisfied the prosecution had established a prima facie case against the accused persons. "After evaluation of the evidence adduced by 28 prosecution witnesses, I am satisfied that a prima facie case has been established against the accused person herein. I therefore put them on their defence," the magistrate ruled. In October 2018, Wario and former senior Sports officials​ ​Komen, Patrick Nkabu, Richard Ekai, Stephen Soi and Francis​ ​Paul denied several graft charges. According to court papers, Wario used his office to improperly confer a benefit of Sh1,506,391 to James Singh. He is also accused of improperly facilitating the travel expenses of six individuals to Rio Olympics, causing a loss of Sh5,846,346 public funds. The former CS is further​ alleged to have improperly conferred a benefit of over Sh1.5 million to Adan Omar by including him in the Rio 2016 Olympic Games Kenyan delegation team to Brazil. Komen and ​others​ are charged with willful failure to comply with applicable procedures and guidelines relating to management of public funds. 