Nursing and breastfeeding mothers have been asked to be extra cautious to protect infants from the coronavirus. The Health ministry on Thursday warned that the number of infants being infected by the virus was worrying. On Thursday, a one-year-old was among the new cases confirmed by CS Mutahi Kagwe. “The infant cases that we have been experiencing explain to us maybe why women should be much more careful particularly young mothers that have kids that are breastfeeding. It is absolutely critical that you take measures to protect infants,” Kagwe said. He said mothers will have to ensure they have got a mask on particularly if not certain about their Covid-19 status. Additionally, they have been called upon to discourage visitors from coming to their homes, as it increases the changes of infecting the infants. The CS also advised against child home-welcoming ceremonies that are always the tradition in most communities and homes. “We need to protect infants. We are getting increasing numbers of infants and that can only mean it is because of the practices we usually have, and I would like us to appreciate that at this moment in time it is difficult for us to continue with some of those practices.” The country surpassed the 200,000 tests mark. The cumulative number of tests conducted in the country since the first case was recorded on March 13 is 200,311. On Thursday, 447 new Covid-19 positive cases were recorded from 3,803 samples tested in a day; the highest number since the first case was reported. The total number of cases confirmed now is 8,975. On the bright side, 64 more people were discharged from hospital, bringing the total number of patients who have successfully recovered to 2,657. The new cases are aged between one and 88 years, comprising 280 men and 167 women. Four more patients died. The total number of fatalities is 173. “If this virus was a physical enemy that came to attack, we the government would have the capacity to protect you against it. But with Covid-19 the situation unfortunately is different. This enemy is an invisible one and nobody in the government, not even the President can ensure that you are totally insulated from the disease. Only you can,” Kagwe said. Health DG Patrick Amoth said as of last Saturday, the country had acquired an additional 483 ICU beds in addition to the 450 that previously existed. He further noted that of the positive cases in the country, 90 per cent are asymptomatic with 40 of them being in critical condition; 20 on ventilatory support and the other 20 supplementary oxygen. The CS noted that the current protocols that require travellers to be tested prior to leaving the country they are in still remains in place as international flights are expected to resume on August 1. “You must have a negative certificate before you board a plane. In fact, the ministry has got a form that individuals fill before they board a plane,” Kagwe said. “You will be tested and when you get to Nairobi, quarantined. Whether it is individual, home or institutional, that is the current protocol and that protocol has not changed.” Similarly, the number of ventilators in the country is almost hitting 520. Edited by R.Wamochie