 Truck drivers will be getting their Covid-19 test results online following after the European Union provided a platform to relay the outcomes. Drivers have previously been forced to wait for days and even weeks for their results before embarking on their journeys. The delayed release of Covid-19 test results is among issues long-distance cargo transporters raised with the Kenyan and Ugandan governments before they went on strike in May. European Union Ambassador to Kenya Simon Mordue on Friday said they will avail an app with a regional electronic cargo driver tracking system that will help track the Covid-19 status of individual drivers electronically. "In the next two weeks, the app will be up and running. It will be possible to follow the trajectory of the truck that will also help detection of any smuggling or short-landing," Mordue said. The envoy spoke at the Busia One Stop Border Post where the EU donated equipment including re-usable boots and masks, handwashing points, sanitizers, hand-washing soap and disinfectants to border front-line health workers and women organisations in Kenya and Uganda. "The EU through Trade Mark East Africa (TMEA) will also establish safe trade which will allow close space zone for women small scale traders to continue operating their businesses as the border remains closed," Mordue said. When truck drivers went on strike, they complained that their Covid-19 test results took more than a week to be availed. Most of them would park their trucks along the Bungoma-Malaba and Busia Kisumu highways as they waited for the results. Health Chief Administrative Secretary Rashid Aman said they will use the app to link up with their laboratory testing system to facilitate detection of truck drivers' Covid-19 status at any transit points between Mombasa and Busia or Malaba. Busia Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi thanked the EU for supporting various projects in the county through TMEA and for capacity building offered to cross border traders. Mulomi urged TMEA to expedite the dualling of Busia-Kisumu highway. Those present were TMEA chief executive Frank Matsaert, EAC Principal Secretary Kevit Desai, Uganda's Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of East African Community Affairs Edith Mwanje and Health CAS Rashid Aman.  Edited by P.O