Chiefs and assistant chiefs in Taita Taveta shall be held personally responsible over increasing cases of female genital mutilation in the region. Public Service and Gender CAS Rachael Shebesh told the administrators to shape up or ship out in the fight against the practice. Shebesh noted that residents had devised new tactics by cutting infants. “They have now turned to mutilating infants without the knowledge of their parents. The act is done in great secrecy by grandparents or medics,” Shebesh said. She issued a stern warning to chiefs in the area, reminding them of their oath to protect the rights of the people, especially children. She said the government had made strides in the fight against FGM, pointing out that the new tactics in the county would force the government to come up with more stringent measures. Speaking during a meeting with stakeholders in Mwatate on Tuesday, the CAS said the government was keen on ending FGM by 2022. She urged local leaders to join hands to protect the girls from the cut. “There is high prevalence of FGM and GBV [gender-based violence] in this region. This calls for collective efforts in bringing to book all the perpetrators,” she added. Taita Taveta council of elders (Njavungo) chairman Ronald Mwasi said the practice is been undertaken secretly by some unscrupulous midwives, elderly women and parents during child birth. “In this county, FGM is a widely practiced cultural activity and has affected many women whose homes have ended breaking up after being left by their husbands. Time is now ripe for us to openly talk about it so as to protect the next generation,” Mwasi said. The practice is common in Mata, Timbila, Salaita, Kishushe, Wundanyi, Maungu and Miasenyi areas. Mwasi said many parents in the affected areas had yielded to cultural demands to circumcise their daughters for fear of being sidelined by their families. Taita Taveta is one of the 17 FGM hotspots in Kenya. An estimated 60 per cent of women in the county have undergone the cut. The Kenya Demographic and Health Survey, 2014 indicates that 22.3 per cent of women aged between 15-49 years have undergone FGM in Taita Taveta. The survey also shows that the county leads in the cutting of infants in Kenya at 61.3 per cent. Further, 22 per cent of children aged 5-9 years, and 11.1 per cent of those between 10 and 14 years have been cut. Haki Africa executive director Hussein Khalid blamed laxity of authorities to curb the practice. He said some government officers were working with perpetrators. Taita Taveta Woman Representative Lydia Haika noted that early marriage and teenage pregnancies were also on rise in the county. “Early marriage rate is one of the worst levels in the entire country. Many of our girls may not go back to school after this pandemic,” Haika said. She revealed that her office would put up a rescue centre in the county to aid young girls who suffer abuse. Edited by Henry Makori