Was the budgetary allocation the untold story behind the Kieleweke fights at the time the budget was being presented in Parliament? Moles have told Corridors of Power that interests were at play with lawmakers from President Uhuru Kenyatta’s (pictured) backyard lining up several proposals in the budget, projects that they banked on for re-election in 2022. Our mole in the corridors claimed that a powerful state operative became angry when her husband’s interests were threatened in the budget. The husband has been a beneficiary of a number of projects, among them flyovers, to modernise roads in the country. *** We have on many occasions told you of a powerful water boss who has been a thorn in the flesh of his employees. Well, the man, who at one time chose to move around on a humble boda boda - to deceive investigators tracking his movements and wealth - is said to be spending his last days at the institution he has micromanaged for years. Corridors is apprised that the board has decided not to renew the fellow’s contract. The man has been camping at higher offices in the department in hopes of securing an extension. *** Is a key political player behind the corruption exposé against another key opposition MP? Word has it that the influential power broker recently shared documents linking the vocal legislator to scandals that not long ago were the hottest topic in the country. The MP has since assumed a low profile as he wonders what the man could be up to. He had thought they were friends and were on a common political mission. It is not the first time the broker who has the ear of the powers that be is doing this. Last year, he was also at the centre of the blame after exposing the businesses dealings of another influential MP. *** A vocal Member of Parliament is said to have pulled the strings leading to the senseless clobbering of Members of County Assembly by police officers in Nairobi. The lawmaker is said to have received a call from the besieged City County Speaker for reinforcements to fortify the office under threat of invasion from the marauding and charging MCAs. Corridors understands that the MP used networks to have cops deployed within record time. Corridors had intimated that the MP had turned into an insider in the influential office, something that has caused unease among the staff. It reeks of hypocrisy how the legislator pulled the strings and has always been in the forefront protesting against police violence. 