The court has barred the DPP, DCI and the media from commenting on or analysing Embakasi East MP Babu Owino’s attempted murder case. Senior principal magistrate Bernard Ochoi issued the order after Babu made an application seeking to bar parties in the case from commenting on it. Babu was charged with the attempted murder of Felix Orinda, popularly known as DJ Evolve at a club in Kilimani. The media has been barred from commenting on and analysing the merits of the case before court. The court also barred DJ Evolve and his associates from commenting on the case. The DPP has been barred from commenting on the matter both orally or on his official twitter handle and the order also applies to the DCI. Ochoi also restrained Babu and his lawyers from commenting on the case. The magistrate further directed the case to be mentioned on August 11 to confirm whether the prosecution will have taken DJ Evolve’s statement. Babu had accused the DPP of inciting his constituents to recall him over the case. Through his lawyer Cliff Ombeta, Babu asked for parties to be barred from commenting on the issue. Ombeta told magistrate Ochoi that they were objecting to the route taken by the DPP in the case. “The DPP has gone on to incite constituents of Embakasi East to recall him, and we are raising an objection,” Ombeta argued. Ombeta said the issue of the DPP seeking to recall Babu was out of his mandate. “By telling them to recall their Member of Parliament he has gone out of his mandate and therefore if he is going to stand here he needs to avoid that political angle,” Ombeta said. Ombeta argued that the issue had affected the MP’s emotions and the DPP needs to stick in his line. The lawyer also asked the court to move the mention date to later this year, saying the complainant was unwell and could not do much. “Complainant (DJ Evolve) is unwell and cannot do much, so we wait a bit longer so that we are certain,” he added. However, senior state counsel Jacinta Nyamosi objected to the application by Ombeta, saying it should be done through an affidavit and not orally. Nyamosi also opposed an application by the defence to have the case mentioned later in the year, arguing that it would not be just to the victim. She had asked the court to give them a near date preferably in August and asked the defence to collect witness statements for the case. Edited by Henry Makori