State House employees are now working from KICC, NHIF and Harambee Annex  after a number of them tested positive for Covid-19 following mass testing. The teams working outside State House include accountants, human resource, procurement, administration and communication departments. The teams have been scaled down and are working in shifts to ensure the virus does not spread. President Uhuru Kenyatta now operates from Harambee House under tight security. State House Controller Kinuthia Mbugua is also based at Harambee House working with a very lean team. Hundreds of staff and families living in State House remain under tight security and are not allowed to leave. Visitors are not allowed to enter the premises. Those who live at State House now rely on basic items supplied by a truck from a supermarket in Nairobi. “Public health officials are monitoring affected families and their close contacts, in line with regulations of the Ministry of Health as outlined by the World Health Organization (WHO),” a source told the Star. State House spokesperson Kanze Dena refused to respond to our queries when contacted. The changes at State House come after the second team of four officials were admitted to the Kenyatta University Hospital after testing positive following mass testing on June 11. The first person to be admitted to the Kenyatta University Hospital from State House was a chef. Her boyfriend went into isolation at the same facility. Another top official was also in the HDU in a Nairobi hospital a couple of weeks ago but the Star could not verify if he was Covid-19 positive. Top officials in the house on the hill told the Star that senior officials preferred to be admitted in private hospitals. “We have to call KU hospital so they are admitted to a special ward so that they don’t mix with other patients. However, others are admitted in private hospitals across the city,” the official said. He added that the last team to be admitted to hospital was asymptomatic and were aged between 34 and 47 years. Edited by Henry Makori