Luo Ohangla music queen Lady Maureen will be buried on Saturday in Migori near the Tanzanian border. Burial organisers have requested police to help enforce Covid-19 rules during the funeral expected to attract huge crowds of adoring fans. Maureen Achieng will be buried at her family home in Kopanga village in Suna West constituency along the border of Kenya and Tanzania, with fans expected to cross over the porous border. Kenya and Tanzania closed their borders for fear of spread of Covid-19. Migori is among hotspot counties for the spread of the disease.. Maureen’s brother Carlos Odira and family spokesman said they continued to receive support from the musician’s fans and supporters, but said they hoped for a peaceful send-off. “As a family we are requesting more support for the burial. We are working with authorities to follow orders and want mourners to follow suit,” Odira said. John Okinyi, a fellow musician also known as Osogo Winyo, said as organisers they will insist on social distancing, wearing of face masks and a short service. “We called on police and government to help us enforce Covid-19 orders and want fans to closely work with authorities to avoid chaos by coming with face masks and maintaining social distance,” Winyo said. Last Saturday, July 11, at dawn the musician died while receiving home-based care in a cousin’s home in Uriri subcounty. Her mother, Margret Atieno, said the singer had been discharged from Pastor Machage Hospital, which was the last centre she was in a three-year battle with sickness. “She was bedridden for the past year, before she departed.  We are still in shock. She was the family pillar,” the mother said. Maureen Achieng’ was born on November 22, 1984 in Seme Kombewa village and has produced several popular songs, mostly singing about key politicians in Luo nation. The family said the musician's troubles started in April 2018 when she was arrested together with 15 band members for performing in Mwanza, Tanzania, without a work permit. The group were sentenced to a year in jail or pay Sh35,000 fine, an amount which was raised by fellow musicians and fans. In an interview with the Star in Migori town immediately after being released, the musician said her arrest was instigated by a promoter who only paid her Sh80,000 out of agreed Sh400,000 to perform for two days. Soon afterwards, attempts to launch a new album failed when she collapsed on the stage in Nairobi while performing. “After that it was a downward trend for her. She struggled with health and attempts to bring her music career back,” Felix Ayieta, a radio presenter at Onagi FM, said. The musician’s fans praised her album with Barikiwa Sounds which had hits like ‘Akuru Marachar' (county song), Yom Kabudho, Abiro Iri, Gladys Wanga and Raila Duog Dala (Baba while you were away) The musician died without a home, despite her huge fame which saw her pull crowds in performances. Her fans accused ODM leader Raila Odinga, among other politicians, for neglecting her. But fellow musicians warned social media users against insulting the ODM leader and other politicians each time one of them died. Maureen’s death came weeks after other famous Luo musicians Omondi Long Lilo and Abenny Jachiga died. In many cases, musicians have no homes or families but live flashy lifestyles. Kisumu Senator Fred Outa built a house for Jachiga. On Wednesday, Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti through his aides gave a Sh200,000 contribution for funeral expenses from Raila and the governor’s Sh100,000. “When we sing about Raila or somebody else, it marks building of friendship and most often we never get direct monetary value from them,” Osogo Winyo said. Winyo, who represents association of Luo musicians in Migori county, said musicians should take music as a career and invest during their success. Elisha Outa, a popular Luo musician called Elisha Toto, said by singing about Raila and Gor Mahia, most musicians work on their popularity to shore up their support and get airplay. “When supporters of politicians get the songs, we also get time for airplay on radio and chances to get shows and support across the country. It is a win-win situation,” Toto said. Toto and Winyo said they have formed associations to help musicians invest in their future instead of relying for help from politicians when times are tough. Edited by Henry Makori