The Wajir administration is committed to working with all stakeholders to ensure that the guidelines to contain the coronavirus in places of worship are adhered to. Governor Mohammed Abdi on Saturday urged residents and the clergy to work together to reduce the spread of the Covid-19 Abdi met public health and Inter-Faith Council officials to create a road map on the implementation of the guidelines on the reopening of the worship places. “It’s the civic duty of each and everyone to collectively participate in the containment of the disease. Let us all work towards ensuring that we stop the spread of the disease even as we go about worshipping. Discipline is key in achieving this,” Abdi said. Present at the meeting were Deputy Governor Ahmed Mukhtar, the deputy chief Kadhi Sheikh Sukyan Hassan and Adan Yunis, Northeastern Supkem chair. The governor expressed concerns at the surge in infection numbers since the partial lockdown was lifted by President Uhuru Kenyatta on July 6. “We are alive to the fact that the easing of the restrictions on the movements of people and goods against the rising trend in the country might pose a risk and we have therefore put in place all preventive measures towards the control of the disease,” the governor said. The county’s  Covid-19 cases have steadied at 16, with no current admissions in both the quarantine and isolation facilities across the county. Sheik Hassan thanked the President for allowing for the reopening of places of worship. He urged Kenyans to remain disciplined and strictly follow the guidelines, failure which it will be catastrophic for everyone. “By now each and every Kenyan knows what is expected of him in as far as stopping the spread of the virus is concerned. As we go about praying we should be alive to the fact that the pandemic is real and only discipline will save us,” Hassan  said. The county will also control the use of football fields attended by spectators who mill around to watch the matches. Busy public joints such as the Monday livestock market and the Soko Mjinga fresh produce will have stricter enforcement of Covid-19 containment guidelines. The administration will also ensure worshippers wear masks and that thermo-guns and hand-washing facilities are in place at all worship areas. (edited by o. owino)