Equity has scooped three top awards at this year’s Euromoney Awards for Excellence. The Bank has been awarded Best Bank in Africa, Excellence in Leadership in Africa and for the second time in a row, Africa’s Best Digital Bank. According to Euromoney, Equity has managed a rare feat for banks on the continent, to become a domestic champion and substantial regional player in East Africa. “Under the stewardship of Chief Executive James Mwangi, the Group has come a long way from a traditional brick-and-mortar institution.... it now better reflects the changing needs and behaviour of its customer base,” Euromoney said. Equity won the Africa Best Bank award category having demonstrated its strong financial performance, differentiated business model, ability to adapt to changing market and regulatory conditions, innovativeness, and a track record of delivering on its targets to shareholders and commitment to its clients. Similarly, the Bank won Africa’s best digital bank award for the second time in a row validating its leadership role in digital offering, both in corporate and retail banking, leveraging technology to benefit both clients and the efficiency of the institution, placing digital at the heart of its business. Equity was recognized for its proactive involvement in initiatives that have benefited the community in which it operates, more so during the current COVID-19 pandemic. “These awards are a true reflection of our commitment as a Bank to transform lives, give dignity and expand opportunities for wealth creation for our customers," Mwangi said. “We are excited that our commitment and leadership to public good ...is visible and recognised as they live at the core of our beliefs, ethos, essence and core values." This year, Euromoney received almost 1,000 submissions from banks in their regional and country awards programme that covers more than 50 regional awards and best bank awards in close to 100 countries. Last year, the bank also emerged the best bank at the Think Business Banking awards and bagged 18 awards, garnering the top slots in 12 categories. 