More than 44,000 families facing eviction from the Mau Forest complex have moved to court in Nakuru seeking orders to stop the exercise. In a petition filed by Nakuru deputy speaker Joseph Tonui and 45 others, the residents of Mariashoni, Bararget, Nesuit and Sururu in Njoro accuse the Kenya Forest Service, Attorney General, Environment Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko and Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya of human rights abuse. Tonui accused the government of perennially using the respondents to wage a political war against a certain community. In a notice of motion before the Environment and Lands court, through lawyer Bernard Ng’etich, the families want the exercise declared illegal. Tonui claims that the settlers are legal title holders and the eviction is an infringement on their constitutional rights. The county assembly deputy speaker who has moved to court as a private citizen claimed that the evictions were being conducted in an inhumane manner. “Houses have been burnt while livestock and landowners have been beaten up,” he says. In the matter filed under a certificate of urgency, the lawyer noted that affected residents living in Sururu, Marioshoni, Bararget and Nesuit areas have been left homeless and destitute amid the current pandemic. Ng’etich claimed that the people who have been evicted in Mariashoni have title deeds and were not living inside gazetted forest land. He claimed that even those who did not have land documents were living on land that was excised in 2001 to settle squatters. In their prayers, they want the court to issue an order directing the state to conduct a fresh survey of the entire Mau forest complex insisting that they are legal settlers on the land. The Kenya Forest Service is undertaking a multi-agency operation to reclaim Logoman, Sururu, Likia, Kiptunga, Mariashoni, Nessuit, Bararget and Oleposmoru forests within the Mau complex. Ng’etich claimed that the evictions were going to tamper with children and their education because there were many schools which are also set for demolition. The ongoing evictions are set to affect many other areas in Molo, Kuresoi North and Kuresoi South. Edited by Henry Makori