A human rights activist has been badly injured by a gang that stabbed him in Nairobi’s Kayole estate. Samir Oloo, 33, was attacked on Sunday evening after he told three gang members to stop robbing people in Kayole Central. He recently had led a peaceful demonstration against city water mismanagement, water hoarding and cartels that were selling at high prices and exploiting resident. Oloo has a lot of enemies because he is a member of the civil society group Human Rights Defenders started the foundation One Vibe based in Kayole Central. No arrests have been made. “I had seen the boys attack and rob people at the entrance of my office a number of times. I told them it was bad to commit crimes and we argued briefly,” Oloo told the Star on the phone. “They went away, then came back in numbers to attack me.” Doctors recommended surgery for blood clots but released him on Thursday with medication, saying he should be monitored and take medication pending surgery. He is struggling to eat, can’t stand and is in deep pain. “Oloo was attacked leaving his office at One Vibe on Sunday at 7pm. We had been discussing activities and projects,” One Vibe CEO Kezia Wanjiru told the Star on the phone. Witnesses said that after they were scolded, the gang walked away. After Oloo left, they attacked him 200 metres from his office. “He was stabbed in the head. They battered and kicked him, he is not doing well,” Wanjiru told the Star. The gang of about 20 youths was aged between about 15 to 30 years, he said. Activist Waithera Wanjiru said Oloo was saved by passersby who rushed him to Kenyatta National Hospital. His relatives and friends reported the attack last Monday. “He lives in the same area and we have to organise his security,” Wanjiru said. “He was to go for surgery to remove blood clots but the doctors at KNH said we should monitor him closely and gave us [blood thinning] drugs.” Two weeks ago Oloo led a peaceful demonstration in Kayole to stop what residents call artificial water rationing that benefits unscrupulous traders. One Vibe brings people together to address their problems and seek solutions for the community. (Edited by V. Graham) 