ANC lawmakers' decision to support President Uhuru Kenyatta's government was not aimed at recouping Parliamentary committee seats they lost in the recent reshuffle, the party has said. The party disavowed any such scheming in a statement on Saturday as it vehemently denied media reports of possible inks with Deputy President William Ruto ahead of the 2022 General Election. The statement was issued by Kibisu Kabatesi, spokesman for ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi. Last Wednesday, the party held a Parliamentary Group meeting at the Panafric Hotel where lawmakers resolved to support the President’s agenda. The resolution came a day several ANC legislators were dewhipped from influential committees in the National Assembly, triggering talk that the party had beaten a hasty retreat to regain lost seats. The party denied the claims, saying it was was impractical for its MPs to announce their support for the President to regain the seats as they had already lost them. “How would Honourable Mudavadi's allies be  expected to recoup the losses in the House by pledging…loyalty, after the fact? Haven’t they already lost?” Kabatesi asked The ANC said the MPs were anchoring Mudavadi’s position to support the head of state to deliver on his development agenda. It said that its leader has a personal relationship with the President and has often pledged to play the role of the “loyal opposition” – supporting and criticising the government where and when necessary. “The Party Leader has often emphasised the personal relationship he has with the President as the basis of his (Mudavadi’s) support for his (the President’s) government," it said. “That position has never changed and he is not about to sever that direct link for third party intercession,” the statement sent to newsrooms said. It added: “The meeting of the ANC Parliamentary Group did not therefore contradict the Party Leader. Instead, the MPs were merely amplifying the position regarding the relations with the President.” In the statement, ANC sought to distance itself from any reported links with Deputy President Ruto, reiterating that any political association Mudavadi will have with any leader, including the DP, will be to support him (Mudavadi) for the country’s top job in 2022. “At no time has the Party Leader and ANC officially announced any political working relationship with Deputy President William Ruto," it said. Only last weekend in Kakamega, Mudavadi was categorical that he "will only welcome an alliance, including with Ruto, in which he is supported as its candidate,” the party said. (Edited by V. Graham)