The Kikuyu Council of Elders has said President Uhuru Kenyatta will have the ultimate say on the region's political direction in 2022. Council chair Wachira wa Kiago warned against premature campaigns for Uhuru's successor, saying such a move could divide the vote-rich bloc ahead of 2022. Kiago said both Uhuru's successor in the region and the political plans for 2022 must strengthen the region's unity and not stoke division. "The ultimate voice of the Mt Kenya region shall be that of President Uhuru Muigai Kenyatta. It's Uhuru who shall give direction to the mountain in 2022. It's called Uhuru Factor," Kiago said in an interview with the Star. The chair insisted that the region might be locked out of the next government if politicians do not read from the same script with the President. “If the mountain fails to hearken to the President's voice, they shall be in the opposition for five years. There is no magic to that," he said. The elders spoke after it emerged that at least two factions have popped up in Mt Kenya to present their preferred candidates as the region's kingpin and spokesperson. Last weekend, four governors and three Cabinet secretaries met at the Embu home of Senator Njeru Ndwiga. Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe — viewed as a possible Mt Kenya spokesperson — was among those who attended the meeting. Others were governors Kiraitu Murungi (Meru), Francis Kimemia (Nyandarua), Mutahi Kahiga (Nyeri), Martin Wambora (Embu) and National Assembly Majority leader and Kipipiri MP Amos Kimunya. Observers saw the meeting a search for the region's kingpin after the exit of President Uhuru. Transport’s James Macharia, Joe Mucheru (ICT) and Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho were the other top-ranking officials at the session. The meeting happened days after National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi hosted some leaders from Mt Kenya for lunch in Nairobi. The meeting at Panafric Hotel was attended by Kimunya, former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth, governors Murungi (Meru), Ndiritu Muriithi (Laikipia), Lee Kinyanjui (Nakuru) and Muthomi Njuki (Tharaka Nithi). There are reports that one faction is fronting Kagwe, while the other said to be linked to Murang'a Senator Irungu Kang'ata is rooting for Kenneth. The scramble is heightening amid concerns that the President's exit could occasion a vacuum in the region without a clear leader. The President's backyard is for the first time facing a huge dilemma on the next regional kingpin. There are indications they could be locked out of the country's top leadership after 2022. (edited by o. owino)