United States-based Kenyan Raymond ‘Kingkong’ Ochieng believes he is still the best contender for Morris Okola’s national heavyweight title defence. In an interview, Kingkong said he has not ruled out the much-hyped contest despite not getting a meaningful offer to do so. Based on his argument on the calibre of boxers he has fought since turning pro in December 2002, the extrovert heavyweight pugilist is challenging boxing authorities to organise a contest between him and Nairobi-based Okola. “He will surely meet his waterloo in this one. I want to teach him a boxing lesson if given an opportunity,” bantered Kingkong. There has been some good-humoured rivalry with both boxers bantering over who would kiss the canvas first. Reached for comment, Okola who boxed for Kenya amateur team (Hit Squad) as a light-heavyweight, claimed he has requested Kingkong for a match on several occasions but he has always chickened out. “He is a just coward. I have been asking him for a fight since 2016 and he has never accepted. I don’t remember him asking me for the same. Now he is talking big. Let him come over and I will put him where he belongs,” said Okola. Kingkong is now calling on Kenya Professional Boxing Commission (KPBC) to actualise the heavyweight title fight. “I would love to fight in Kenya but they’re offering me ‘disrespectful amount’ forgetting I am the man who beat the legitimate champion David Nino Rodriguez in July 2014. Honestly, I may have to take the low-ball they are offering because I am tired of people asking why I am not fighting Morris (Okola),” Ochieng charged. He added: “He has not fought anyone of my calibre, no disrespect. But the best opponents he faced have never won a single fight. It’s a disgrace to sanction such a fight calling it Kenyan heavyweight title.” In his long-standing career, Kingkong also fought Jarrell Miller, the guy who failed the drug test. Kingkong went on: “Miller was to fight Antony Joshua before Andy Ruiz got the opportunity. I beat David Rodriguez (36- 1), who was WBC Mexican Latino heavyweight champion at the time—the biggest prospect when Mike Tyson had just signed him. I was his first opponent under Tyson’s promotion company. So that’s about Rodriguez. I hope to fight Shannon 'The Cannons' Briggs. We were preparing for it before the outbreak of the Covid-19. Hopefully, everything will return to normal but before then, I will be getting ready.” Kingkong is currently training at the Ron Likes Gym in Coon Rapids, Minneapolis, Minnesota. KPBC chairman Reuben Ndolo promised to look into the matter once the ban on sporting activities is lifted.