The focus has now shifted to the steadily rising Covid-19 in the counties neighbouring the larger Nairobi Metropolitan Area. Of particular concern is the rise in cases in Kiambu, Machakos and Kajiado counties with data from the Health Ministry showing that Kiambu recorded 274 new cases in the past one week alone. This has been attributed to the easing of movement restrictions that had earlier been imposed on the Nairobi Metropolitan Area. Health CAS Rashid Aman on Thursday noted the rising numbers in the capital city is a matter of great concern. “In the past few weeks we have a seen a steady increase in the number of our cases and this is something that worries all of us,” Aman said. “We are appealing to residents of these counties to strictly adhere to the containment measures for the spread of the virus to be under check.” Infection in Mombasa, which was previously a hotspot, has, however, been on the decline, with the county recording 85 new cases in the past one week. “This is good news considering that the coastal town is among our major tourist destinations and the gateway to the East African region,” Aman said. “Clearly the measures in place there are working and this needs to be encouraged. The coastal people must not let their guard down if their numbers are to continue to drop.” Data from Wednesday’s briefing shows that the number of cases in the country now stands at 14,805 after 637 more cases were confirmed. The new cases were from 4,275 samples tested in a day. The number of tests conducted since the first case is now 254,273. The data from the ministry further shows that 499 more people were discharged from hospital, bringing the number of patients who have successfully undergone treatment to 6,757. Four hundred and six were from home-based care, while 93 were released from various health facilities. The new cases are aged between one year and 88 years, comprising 361 men and 276 women. Out of the total confirmed cases, 342 are from Nairobi while Machakos comes second with 85 new cases. Kajiado had 57 cases, Kiambu 51, Nakuru 22, Mombasa 17, Nyeri 13, Busia 10, Murang’a nine, Uasin Gishu six, Bomet five, Kericho and Kisii three cases each, Marsabit two while Narok, Vihiga, Meru, Embu, Garissa, Homa Bay, Kakamega, Kilifi, Kirinyaga, Kisumu, Kitui and Laikipia recorded one case each. Ten more patients succumbed to the virus, bringing the total number of fatalities in the country to 260. Health director general Patrick Amoth noted that a combination of hypertension and diabetes accounts for 32 per cent of the risk factors leading to severe Covid-19 disease in the country. Hypertension alone accounts for 17 per cent of the cases, diabetes on its own accounts for 15 per cent, chronic lung disease and cancers each account for 10 per cent, while HIV accounts for five per cent of the cases of severe Covid-19. “These people are at increased risk of mortality and we have worked out guidelines to ensure continuity of services and for other services including HIV and TB to ensure these people receive optimum services and their conditions are properly controlled,” Amoth said. Edited Henry Makori