Prof Mohamud Sheikh Mohamed, best known in his backyard as Dr Omaar, is no stranger to encounters with people living tough lives. At eight, he was already into humanitarian activities to uplift the lives of people at his rural home in Wajir South. With the squalor around him then, Omaar’s humble beginnings appear to have helped him master the art of contributing to social causes. At that tender age, he used to deliver food donations to the poor and elderly who could not walk from their homes to the distribution centres. He schooled at Wajir Bor primary, an area which had very low literacy levels, hence was a key link between the donor organisations and the locals. Then as a Kenya Red Cross volunteer, he could write and read the names of persons earmarked for receiving food rations. Omaar’s remarkable contribution was during the Kenya Red Cross’ ‘Kenyans for Kenya Initiative’ in 2011 to mitigate hunger. The lawmaker, through his contacts, at that time mobilised more than 200 tonnes of medical rations and 100 tonnes of relief food for starving Kenyans. The MP, approaching his 50s, told the Star this was one trait he carried with him from the days of his prime, contributing to various charitable institutions in Kenya and abroad. Omaar spent his childhood days in Wajir Bor and Habaswein, humbling experiences that the father of eight says inspired him to remain focused on achieving greater heights. He sat his KCSE exam at Wajir High School in 1987, went for training in postgraduate clinical pathology in 1991 and then service in 1996 at the Kenya Medical Institute, Nairobi. Omaar proceeded to the University of Sydney, from which he graduated with a master of health sciences in 2002 and later pursued a master of international public health, graduating in 2004. He graduated with a doctorate in public health in 2007 The medic-cum-philanthropist served as a civil servant for several years and has had a footprint in seven out of the former eight provinces of Kenya. “I am glad to be part of the people who have immensely contributed to the civil service,” the Wajir South MP said. The lawmaker, an academic with nearly 16 years of postgraduate teaching experience in global health, joined politics in 2013 on the grounds that “my people were being short-changed by their representatives”. The MP was conferred adjunct professorial position at the University of New South Wales in Sydney Australia. He studied at University of Sydney and holds qualifications in biomedical sciences (clinical pathology), double master's in health sciences and international health, and a doctorate in public health. Omaar was also awarded a fully funded four-year postdoctoral research on infectious diseases at the University of Sydney. He has over 40 scientific publications and books to his name.