Nancy Gathungu has been sworn in as the country's new Auditor General in the presence of Chief Justice David Maraga at the Supreme Court. Gathungu takes over from Edward Ouko who retired in August 2019. While taking the oath of office on Friday afternoon, Gathungu said her priority will be to clear the audit backlog as soon as possible while adhering to the Health Ministry's protocols on Covid-19. "Owing to the gap that existed between the expiry of Ouko and her recruitment, there has been a backlog of audit reports spanning a period of 11 months," she said. The Auditor General said she will be to put up mechanisms to clear backlog so that entities may hold their annual general meetings and donors can also get feedback on spending of the projects they support. "The work of this office is critical. I will hold this office in public trust and will look up to to the judiciary and Parliament as I carry out my duties," she said. The new Auditor General said her tenure will be based on four pillars: Independence, credibility, relevance and accountability. Maraga urged Gathungu to ensure she is not intimidated by any external or internal forces in fulfilling her duties. "You will step on very thick toes but you are required to discharge your duties without fear or favour," the CJ advised. The CJ promised to give her all the support she needs in the discharge of her new duties. The Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua who was also present, said as a government they were looking forward to her leadership. "We will support you. The government and stakeholders will give you all the necessary support you will require in fulfilling your work and delivering to Kenyans," he said. MPs earlier this week approved Gathungu's nomination by President Uhuru Kenyatta as the country's new Auditor General. The lawmakers endorsed the report of Finance and Planning Committee which recommended the appointment of Gathungu to succeed retired Auditor General Edward Ouko. The seat fell vacant in August 2019 following the expiry of Edward Ouko’s eight-year tenure. The position was re-advertised after 17 shortlisted candidates initially shortlisted failed to meet the minimum threshold for the final shortlist in December 2019. Public Service Commission Chairperson Stephen Kirogo explained the position was advertised afresh to ensure the right person is recruited for the demanding job.