The late Keroche Breweries heiress Tecra Muigai’s Lamu boyfriend Omar Lali is tomorrow expected to take plea in the death case. Lamu principal magistrate Allan Temba made the ruling via a video link on Monday. Lali,54, is to be charged after the DPP reviewed toxicological evidence, detailed postmortem reports, phone records, other documentary exhibits and witness statements. Lead prosecutor Eddie Kadebe and his colleague Zakaria Kiongo said they were satisfied that there was sufficient evidence to have Lali take a plea for murder. Tecra, the daughter of  Keroche Breweries CEO Tabitha Karanja, died in May in what was reported as an accident. She suffered cerebral oedema resulting from a fall on April 27 from a staircase at a house she shared with Lali in Lamu . Tecra's family lawyers led by James Orengo expressed satisfaction with the decision, saying justice was being served. Orengo asked that Lali be arraigned before a judge for plea-taking. But Lali’s advocate Yusuf Aboubakar said that while he could not contest the decision to charge his client, he will prove his client's innocence. Making the ruling, magistrate Temba gave homicide detectives 24 hours to present Lali to the High Court in Garsen to have him take a plea. “I allowed the decision by the DPP to be taken to the next stage for murder plea taking. If unable to present him within 24 hours, then he should be given police bond,” Temba said. Lali was released on May 27 by the same court on a Sh300, 000 bond and two sureties provided by his mother and brother-in-law. Until her death on May 2 this year, Tecra was the strategy and innovations director at Keroche Breweries. She died at a Nairobi hospital after sustaining injuries after apparently falling from a flight of stairs in a house she shared with Lali. An autopsy conducted by chief government pathologist Johansen Oduor a month ago revealed that Tecra died as a result of trauma to the left side of her face consistent with a fall. She was laid to rest at her family home on Naivasha on May 16. Edited by Henry Makori