Coast members of Parliament have accused Raila Odinga's Orange Democratic Movement of betrayal during the Senate debate on the revenue sharing formula. The 10 lawmakers from Lamu, Kilifi, Mombasa and Malindi cited four Nyanza senators, describing them as enemies of the coastal region. They said the voting pattern of Senators James Orengo (Siaya), Fred Outa (Kisumu), Moses Kajwang’ (Homa Bay) and Ochillo Ayacko (Migori) confirms that Coast has no friends in the lakeside counties. The four voted for Senator Irungu Kang'ata's amendment on Tuesday night. The amendment was defeated - 22 for and 25 against. The Coast MPs led by ODM’s Owen Baya (Kilifi North) said the four senators' voting was the highest form of betrayal. “The debate and subsequent vote on the Kang'ata amendment on the revenue sharing formula has exposed who our true friends are. It has exposed the ideological hypocrisy of our so-called political bedfellows,” Baya said. He said the Luo Nyanza senators threw the Coast under the bus. "We wish to tell them that their selfish votes may be celebrated at home because they were to attempt to save BBI and a few million shillings as benefits of handshake. ” The other MPs were Mohammed Ali (Nyali), Michael Kingi (Magarini), Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), Sharif Ali (Lamu East), Andrew Mwadime (Mwatate), Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga Lunga), Jones Mlolwa (Voi), Paul Kahindi (Kaloleni) and Benjamin Taya (Kinango). They said the action of the ODM senators will have political ramifications in 2022, noting that the region is considering courting new political friends. “Their actions will have far-reaching political consequences for the Coast and that their votes consequentially mean a divorce to the fraternity at the Coast.” Mwashetani said the region has no business with leaders who are taking away resources from Coast people and they will push for a federal system of government that will see every region surviving on its resources. “We will force federalism and demand that we are left with both Mombasa and Lamu ports,” the Lunga Lunga MP said. “This is the time we must unite as coastal leaders. This is the time we needed Nyanza like never before but they chose to turn their back on us. There is no more friendship,” Kingi added. But Nyando MP Jared Okelo – a member of ODM NEC – dismissed the betrayal claim, saying Coast has been integral in the Orange party. “The Coast region enjoys Parliamentary Service Commission (PSC), the most powerful parliamentary position courtesy of ODM. All coastal MPs are plugged in powerful committees including PIC which is chaired by Mvita MP Nassir (Abdulswamad),” Okelo said. “When they talk about being sidelined we don’t know what they mean. Such attempts have been made in the past; let them try the same tactics," he said.   - mwaniki fm