County assembly Majority Leader Abdi Guyo has criticised Nairobi Metropolitan Services boss Mohamed Badi, accusing him of meddling in politics and causing tension in the city. Guyo on Thursday accused Badi of deviating from his role as defined in the deed of transfer and meddling in other affairs. “He should stop unnecessary showiness and concentrate on the four functions that the governor transferred to the National Government,” Guyo said. Guyo took on the military man tasked with carrying out the four Nairobi county functions transferred to the national government, accusing him of dividing the city leaders. The Matopeni/Spring Valley ward legislator faulted Badi for taking over the former mayor’s office residence in Livingstone estate. “The mayor’s house is supposed to be an official residence of the governor. And we have just one elected governor in Nairobi. So, he cannot claim that the house belongs to NMS,” he said. Badi and his officers from NMS had allegedly visited the home and ‘repossessed’ the five-bed bedroom building from ‘grabbers.’ However, the Star could not reach Badi for comment. This happened only days after Governor Mike Sonko announced taking over the house which he termed as the office governor’s residence. “Today, I have taken possession of the Governor’s Official residence in Lavington, Nairobi. The residence was returned to the Nairobi City County Government by the EACC following its recovery after it had been grabbed,” Sonko posted on Facebook on Tuesday. In the post, the flamboyant city boss said, being the equivalent of Mayors, all elected Nairobi governors should reside there. Guyo said the building belonged to Sonko, who is the Mayor’s equivalent in the new Constitution, and that Badi’s claims that he repossessed it amounted to playing politics. “The governor went there. Then later Badi went there and today he went there and said the house belongs to NMS. That is nonsense,” he said. He added, “That is the official residence of the elected governor. It is not grabbed. He should keep off politics.” Guyo also took issue with Nairobi Assembly speaker Beatrice Elachi, accusing her of dividing city leaders and plunging the assembly into a state of chaos.