Five people were on Wednesday arrested in a residential house in Waberi West location, Garissa Township, with one kilogramme of bhang. Chief Yusuf Sheikh said the arrest was made after a tip-off from a curious member of the public. Sheikh said he sent an informer to go and buy the drug from the suspects house, which he successfully did. The chief then informed the police who raided the house. Officer in charge of crime at Garissa police station Daniel Etiyang led the raid. "They [suspects] were busy smoking and chewing miraa,” the chief said. The suspects were identified as Briton Kiame (25), Joshua Maundu (32), Pius Mumo (23), Mweu Mutio (23), and Kyalo Mwongeli (23). The five will be taken to court once investigations are complete. Addressing the press in his office, Sheikh said that peddling of drugs was on the rise and cautioned parents to keenly monitor the movement of their children. “You can imagine the person I sent to purchase the drugs was a 14-year-old who is in Form 2. It seems that these drug peddlers don’t care who they sell the drug to. All they are after is money,” the administrator said. Sheikh said they will continue to crackdown on those bringing and peddling bhang in Garissa. Recently, police in Garissa launched investigation into an incident in which a van belonging to private hospital in Mandera West was involved in an accident and bhang worth Sh3 million seized. It is not yet clear how the van, which had 56 stones of bhang, made it through several police barriers from Moyale to Garissa. Northeastern regional commissioner Nicodemus Ndalana said were it not for the accident, which claimed three lives, the drugs could have easily reached the intended destination. The Toyota Land Cruiser with foreign number plate was trying to overtake another vehicle between Modogashe and Dujis when it collided head-on with an oncoming Probox. The driver of the Land Cruiser escaped. Ndalana said smugglers have turned the region into a transit point, but going forward, they will tie all the loose ends that they have been using. Edited by A.N 