Opposition Chief Raila Odinga will not be returning home anytime soon, Minority Whip Junet Mohamed has confirmed. Speaking to the Star from Dubai, the Suna East lawmaker said their trip, with Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, was not to bring Raila back home but to pay the ODM leader a visit after he underwent a minor surgery. The ODM boss was accompanied by his daughter Winnie. Junet and Joho left the country aboard a chartered flight to the United Arabs Emirates where Raila has been on treatment in a German hospital. Junet and Joho are expected to be home early Saturday. He said they would leave Dubai for Nairobi on Friday. “We are coming back today (Friday).” The Suna East lawmaker, who is also the ODM Director of Elections and Campaigns, was uncertain on when Raila will be returning back into the country. “We were just visiting him. I don’t know when he will come back,” Junet said. On Thursday, Raila’s spokesperson Dennis Onyango told the Star the ODM boss was taking a break in line with his doctor’s advice. “I cannot say with certainty [when he is coming back]. I don’t want to speculate. He is resting. Both doctors and the family think he should take a break," Onyango said. Raila quietly flew out of the country on June 24 to Dubai where he underwent surgery to treat what the family termed a nerve disorder that had affected one of his legs. Nerve disorders are associated with pain, tingling or numbness. They can be temporary, after sitting or standing for long, or can result from a pinched nerve. Nerve problems can also be a warning sign of serious medical conditions, and some may require surgery. For people with peripheral neuropathy - nerve damage that affects legs, feet, toes, hands and arms - this numbness and tingling does not go away easily. Last week, a sprightly Raila appeared in public via a video for the first time to allay fears that he was bedridden. He confirmed that he had successful surgery and was on his way to recovery before flying back to the country to resume his normal duties. “I am feeling good, great, very strong and rejuvenated. I am feeling great really to be out of hospital breathing fresh air,” Raila said. “I want to thank all my friends, supporters and all our youth who have sent me so many messages of goodwill. It has just been amazing and wonderful. It made me recover so fast.”  