 The Education ministry’s plan to reopen schools in September is in disarray after revelations that virus infections could spike around the same time. Instead, CS George Magoha now argues that schools will not reopen until the infection curve is flattened to avert spread of Covid-19 among learners. His remarks are a flip on a proposal fronted by his ministry to the President recommending reopening in September. Magoha, however, said a myriad of factors were being considered to decide whether schools will reopen. He spoke at a meeting that brought together representatives from teachers’ and lecturers’ unions, parents associations, private school representatives and head teachers at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development. In the meeting, the CS said the decision will be made by President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday. Schools and institutions of higher learning closed mid-March to stem the spread of coronavirus. By September, primary and secondary schools will have lost 17 weeks of the academic calendar. Initial proposals by a committee formed by Magoha to look into schooling in a coronavirus era recommended candidates in primary and secondary schools report back first to avert a transition crisis. The ministry was in May directed to re-organise and make public a new school calendar by mid-August to pave way for reopening. Kenya National Union of Teachers secretary general Wilson Sossion said it was important for children to return to school "as quickly as possible and when safe to do so". “There should be no hurry in reopening. Learning institutions should only be reopened when we are sure there would be minimal or no danger to the lives of the students,” Sossion said. On Monday, Magoha acknowledged challenges in resuming operations due to social distancing ahead of the planned reopening. Existing infrastructure in schools will not support such a recommendation given the learner population, Magoha said. Last week, he announced tough measures awaiting the reopening. Magoha, who visited the Kitui textile company to inspect production of masks to be distributed to schools, hinted at a plan to split classes to only accommodate a maximum of 20 learners, a plan whose viability is subject to debate. He also said schools will need to acquire thermal guns for routine temperature checks. Edited by R. Wamochie