Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia has urged residents to take Covid-19 seriously and observe the measures put in place to protect themselves against infection. He said there were many people who take the pandemic as a joke, hence they don’t take precautions to protect themselves and others. “They should know this disease is killing people. Many Kenyans have been buried and thousands are sick,” he said Kimemia said that even those who take things for granted should know the disease will also affect their family members if they get infected. He said 14 people who came into contact with two Covid-19 positive patients from Nyandarua who were announced last week had been traced and tested negative. Kimemia spoke after chairing the county Covid-19 emergency response committee at KMTC Ol Kalou campus on Tuesday. He said the committee would meet with the religious leaders in the county on Thursday to agree on modalities to be followed to prevent against infection ahead of resumption of church services on Sunday. For the elderly and young children, he said, they should stay at home as advised by the government. Ways to have them spiritually nourished will be explored. Nyandarua county police commander Zachary Kimani said police officers are under instruction to strictly enforce the Covid-19 regulations on commuter vehicles. There has been public concern that matatus plying different routes in Nyandarua are overloading and not providing sanitiser and water for washing hands to their passengers. Kimani urged road users to be responsible for their own health and not only wait for police officers to enforce the rules. “We are calling on the members of the public to cooperate with us to ensure the rules are observed. You should not enter a vehicle that already has reached the recommended capacity or allow more people to be brought in,” he said Kimani urged the commuters to call the police to notify them of notorious drivers and conductors violating the rules. Edited by Henry Makori