This year has been the darkest year in living memory. It is nothing like the tragedies of the past we learnt from the pages of history books. In the past, these dark periods would be faced by one or a few countries at a time. A ripple effect would then trickle down to most of the other countries. This year for the first time ever, the world faced an unknown enemy together, at the exact same time. Covid-19 swept through the globe mercilessly, regardless of a country’s power, size or economic position. We are all equal in the wrath of this invisible adversary. Covid-19 aside, the globe witnessed devastating disasters, both natural and unnatural. From the raging fires of the Amazon and Australia to the cyclone and typhoons off the American coast. Whether it was from coronavirus, natural disasters or for mysterious reasons, we lost too many people this year. We lost people we knew, those who died unknown; we lost people we admired and those we disagreed with. The number of deaths, especially those among the known persons, was so incredibly high this year that an entire Wikipedia page is dedicated to famous persons all over the globe who died in 2020. And the year is not over yet. Those of us who have made it this far are not guaranteed to make it to the end of the year. The young generation practising cancel culture have wanted to boycott the rest of 2020. They have a point… It’s only July and I am exhausted. I was cooped up in the house for months on end. I have been separated from people I love for an entire year and even tangoed in and out of depression. Unfortunately, this type of situation has not been unique to me. Many of us wish we could go to bed and wake up next year, leaving the nightmare that is this year behind. As countries begin to slowly transition back to their usual state post-corona, I understand the hesitation in the air: “Is it safe to open up the borders? Has the coronavirus been eradicated?” We are scared of the unknown consequences we may face if we open up sooner. Coronavirus has been one of those diseases that taught us consequences for our actions the hard way. However, it is high time we fight back against the disease that has taken too much from us in the last few months. We took all the measures necessary to curb the spread of the virus, now it is time to deal with the aftermath. We cannot stay in hiding forever. Taking all we have learnt in the last few months into account, I believe we must find viable ways of transitioning life back to normal — or to the new normal — post Covid-19. Ever since President Uhuru Kenyatta announced his plans to open up the borders next month, Kenyans have been squirming over the possibility of an impending disaster. Yes, the decision might be disastrous, but there is a fair chance it might not. The point is someone has to take the first step eventually. The only thing we can do is be conscious of our decisions. Just because we are transitioning to life post-corona does not mean we should not continue taking precautionary measures. Who knows? We might end up living in a prophylactic state for a long time to come.