A senior government official could be living on borrowed time in his docket following recent upheavals in another government unit. The man who has styled himself as untouchable was left blue in the face when he was excoriated for his alleged misdeeds. The man is holding his breath as rumours of imminent reshuffle swirl. Its whispered he could be shuffled to a less lucrative dockets or kicked out altogether. Corridors understands that President Uhuru Kenyatta has marked the man and a week ago, he read a riot act to him. As chicken come home to roost, the Swahili saying “Mgema akisifiwa, tembo hulitia maji” has hit home. Even as the Nairobi Metropolitan Services (NMS) continues to receive accolades for a job well done in the first four months, pending bills still remain a thorn in the flesh. A bird whispered to Corridors that there are several suppliers who are yet to be paid even with the approval of supplementary budget. He said that some small-scale suppliers have been seeking payment for as little as Sh20, 000 but in vain. It is understood that some of those waiting to be paid are youths who cleared drainage systems in various parts of the city. MCAs are said to be plotting to petition the Major general Mohammed Badi to take over all pending bills for scrutiny and settlement. For a long time, rural folks have been dreading visits by people from Nairobi fearing they would infect them with Covid-19. But when Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe announced that no one will be air-lifted to Nairobi from other counties for treatment, city dwellers were inadvertently handed bragging rights. Residents of the city and Mombasa as well had been the subject of stigma and taunts from the villagers because the two counties were considered as ground zero. With the announcement, city residents took to social media to remind those from rural areas to remain where they are no matter what. Residents of a constituency in Nairobi have just discovered that their MP has been taking all credit for some development projects in the area, claiming he is the force behind them. The legislator has been frequently visiting the sites to inspect the progress and even warning the contractors against any delays. But locals have teamed up with the ward reps and are planning to give the MP a dress down during his next visit. They want the legislator to elaborate how he has spent his CDF allocations instead of bragging about national government projects