Did a female journalist dump an MP on WhatsApp? A young MP from Nyanza is licking his sour wounds after being dumped by TV woman on WhatsApp after a clip of him partying with another woman emerged online. In the clip, the MP's gyrating waist is seen with his hips up as an invisible woman is heard praising him 'that is my honey, that is my baby.' The MP is said to have lied to his TV girlfriend that he was to visit his constituency for a development project before the clip emerged. The woman was so bitter that she broke up with the legislator on WhatsApp. The MP whose known for his I don't care attitude has been hit by the breakup and is using emissaries to try and talk to the TV siren in vain. The family of a City MP is worried after the legislator's love for the bottle grown tenfold during the lockdown period. The family is thinking of taking the man to rehab to deal with his growing addiction. According to sources, the MP can no longer eat before taking one or two bottles of gin, a situation that has left the family in deep shock. "He can no longer eat before taking booze and the wife and children are worried," the source told Corridors. This is not the first time the lawmaker is battling addiction with reports indicating that he had the same problem some years ago before he was taken for a home-based rehab. City county MCAs who were touted to be given Committees are contemplating ditching the leader after the stalemate with speaker Beatrice Elachi festered. The MCAs who got a nod from the Party are said to be worn out and sapped up by the searing cold aggravated by the uncertainty. They are now threatening to troop back to the Speaker to secure plum committees and influence. The season of political betrayal is on. Police officers in a South Rift county last week went into celebrations hours after they learned to a transfer of a senior officer who had become a thorn in their flesh. Corridors has been told the junior officers who had come under the senior cop described to have been cruel bought drinks and roasted meat the night the officer had backed and left the station. An officer who attended the celebration feast whispered to corridors that the officer would demand outrageous things including money from the officers especially those attached to traffic department and those who failed to play to his demands would be victimised and transferred to high risks areas.