Speculation is rife after National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi met seven top political leaders from Mt Kenya region at a Nairobi hotel. The four-hour meeting was attended by, among others, four governors from President Uhuru Kenyatta’s backyard, triggering speculation about its motive. Governors Kiraitu Murungi (Meru), Ndiritu Muriithi (Laikipia), Lee Kinyanjui (Nakuru) and Muthomi Njoki (Tharaka Nithi) attended the meet at Panafric hotel. Others were National Assembly Majority Leader Amos Kimunya, former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth and Kirinyaga Senator Charles Kibiru. Addressing journalists after the meeting, Murungi said they were "having a political lunch" to congratulate Kimunya who was recently installed as the Majority leader. “We requested the speaker of the National Assembly to be with us so we can congratulate our friend and old colleague Kimunya on his appointment," Murungi said. He thanked the President for appointing Kimunya to the powerful house position. The leaders are proponents of the handshake between the President and ODM boss Raila Odinga. They are close to the head of state and have been considered as his key point men in the region to spearhead the BBI agenda. In February, Murungi hosted a BBI rally in Meru town where Raila received the region’s list of demands. All the leaders save for Muturi attended the Meru rally. Governor Kinyanjui was scheduled to host a similar gathering for the Rift Valley region at Afraha Stadium in Nakuru, but the meeting was called off after Covid-19 broke out. “We are going to a very interesting time. With BBI coming, with 2022 also ahead, it is good to have old guards like him who are already in the House,” he said. Kimunya replaced Garissa Town MP Aden Duale who was considered to be non-committal to the BBI agenda because of his close ties with Deputy President William Ruto. “The Mt Kenya region will benefit from his (President’s) leadership just like other Kenyans. So we are not claiming any special position or interest as at now.” “We want to fight for Kenyans and I think this is what the President has been talking about. We want a united, peaceful and progressive Kenya and we also want a coronavirus free nation,” Murungi said as he rejected questions from journalists. Edited by R.Wamochie