Notable faces in the national government on Monday landed in Western with goodies to woo the region ahead of the anticipated  BBI referendum. Cabinet secretaries John Munyes (Mining), James Macharia (Transport), Eugene Wamalwa (Devolution) and Peter Munya (Agriculture) were in the region to inspect and launch development projects that will firm up President Uhuru Kenyatta's Big Four agenda. Among the projects announced are the construction of a granite factory and tarmacking of the 15km Gisambayi-Shamakhokho road in Vihiga county. The team was accompanied by governors Wycliffe Wangamati in Bungoma, Wilber Ottichilo in Vihiga and Deputy Governor Philip Kutima in Kakamega. They also inspected the stalled Lurambi-Nambacha-Musikima road in Kakamega and promised to help revamp Mumias and Nzoia sugar companies. Macharia said the government has allocated Sh1 billion for tarmacking Gisambai-Shamakhokho road. The work starts immediately, he announced. Munyes said the government had set aside Sh51 million for the construction of a granite factory in Luanda, Vihiga. He received ownership documents for the site from Ottichilo to pave the way for the project. "We started with a feasibility study that was completed and the environmental impact assessment report is almost ready," Munyes said. The factory is expected to create jobs for residents and improve the region's economy. Munyes said it will become operational soon after it is completed as raw materials, including rocks and plenty of water, are readily available. Wamalwa and Munyes urged the local leadership to stop politicking and focus on development. "Camps do not have meaning now. The majority of you here were in Nasa but after the handshake, the camps are no more and we are all together," Munyes said. Uhuru is keen to build his legacy around the Big Four agenda whose pillars are manufacturing, food security, universal healthcare and affordable housing. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and Wamalwa have been traversing Western, urging residents to support the national government for the region to benefit from development. The tour of the five counties was arrived at after five governors from the region, including Trans Nzoia, met the President two weeks ago. The ministers also received documents for ownership of a 10-acre piece of land in Iguhu in Ikolomani for the construction of a gold mining and processing factory. Munya said the government is in the process of identifying strategic investors to help revive the ailing sugar sector. On the same issue, Oparanya said eight potential investors have been identified for the revival of Mumias Sugar Company. For the first time in months, MPs allied to Deputy President William Ruto came in tow, perhaps a change of strategy to find a platform to air their views given their gatherings have been dispersed by the police in the recent past. Mumias East MP Ben Washiali attended the meeting in Mumias, while former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale attended the meeting in Vihiga. Oparanya and Wamalwa hope to advocate the government development agenda to endear themselves to the electorate ahead of the 2022. The two are engaged in a drive to dislodge ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang'ula from the helm of the region's leadership. Mudavadi and Wetang'ula have also been holding parallel meetings with opinion leaders to cement their positions in the community. The region is currently viewed as a battleground even as the three camps fight for supremacy. Oparanya  said development would only be realistic if the counties worked with the national government. He said the five governors from Western sought involvement of the national government because the counties do not have adequate funds to support the development needs of residents. (Edited by F'Orieny)