Allegations of corruption are once again threatening to bring down a second Kenya Bureau of Standards boss less than two years after the unceremonious exit of ex-MD Charles Ongwae. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission pounced on Kebs MD Benard Njiraini in what the anti-graft body termed being a stumbling block in uncovering corruption in the government agency. The EACC officers have been probing allegations of bribery at the state corporation and accuse Njiraini of sabotage. He was taken to the EACC's headquarters at Integrity Centre where he recorded a statement. Njiraini is accused of – among other claims - refusing to give EACC detectives original documents relating to multimillion-shilling tenders the commission is investigating. Sources familiar with the matter said Njiraini was arrested as a penal consequence for failing to comply with a notice issued to him to surrender the documents. “He has refused to comply, thereby continuously frustrating the timely conclusion of investigations. This [arrest] is with a view of obtaining the said documents and preferring charges against him for his contravention,” a source told Star. EACC has been investigating allegations of procurement irregularities and payment of bribes in respect of awards for tenders for provision of pre-export conformity of goods, used motor vehicles, mobile equipment and spare parts by Kebs. Njiraini, a former military officer, was picked in August 2019 to head the crucial department to salvage the parastatal which had been in the limelight for all the wrong reasons, including sneaking of contraband goods into the country. He took over at Kebs following the exit of Ongwae, who is facing abuse of office charges. The former MD was arrested and charged alongside 14 others in a tax evasion swoop by the Kenya Revenue Authority early last year. In January, Ongwae was charged with abuse of office and conspiracy to deny the government tax revenue. He and the others were charged with 31 counts of tax evasion in a scheme that saw the government lose Sh64 million in revenue, according to the prosecution. Njiraini’s short tenure has been bumpy, with MPs in March questioning how he was appointed to the lucrative position even after failing to be among the top three during interviews. Members of the National Assembly's Trade Committee questioned how then Trade CS Peter Munya settled on Njiraini who was ranked sixth in the interviews. The law provides for competitive sourcing of the CEO. The recruiters are required to submit three best candidates to the Cabinet Secretary for appointment. According to documents that were tabled before the committee by Trade CAS Lawrence Karanja in March, Njiraini’s name was not among the three submitted.  