The family of the late former Provincial Commissioner Charles Karuga Koinange  are yet to wholly agree on how the former assets worth billions of shillings will be distributed. The matter was last in court on October 14, 2019 before Justice Aggrey Muchelule when parties agreed to have the same referred to mediation.  Reverend Geoffrey Njenga was appointed to conduct the mediation. According to court documents, parties reached a partial agreement, settling 90 per cent of the dispute. Karuga died on February 20 2004. He left a vast estate comprising plots in Ngorongo, Kiambu Muria Farm comprising 89 acres, plots in Kiambaa, Nairobi Riverside Esae, Gigiri, Banana Hill, Mombasa, thika among others. His estate is said to be approximately worth Sh15 billion. He was polygamous but his first wife (Grace) died, leaving behind six sons and four daughters. Her children are Wilfred Karuga, John Miringu, Paul Mbiyu, Leonard Kangethe, William Kihara and Ernest Ngugi. She also left behind four daughters being Mary Wanjira, Marion Wambui, Isabella Wanjiku and Rosemary Gachiku. In 1960, the deceased married his second wife, Mary Njoki, with whom they had a son and a daughter - Peter Mbiyu and Jaine Wambui. He had a total of 12 children who have been listed as beneficiaries of the estate. In the agreement, the beneficiaries reached a consensus on distribution of approximately 800 acres in Ngorongo, 200 acres in Kiambu, parcels in Banana Hill, 60 acres in Thika, property in Mombasa and shares in various companies. The agreement also included sharing of cash in safe custody in different banks, the deceased's assets held in the unclaimed financial assets authority, motor vehicles and various shares in prime listed companies. Only 10 per cent of the dispute remained unresolved from the mediation. The assets which parties did not agree on include CKK Estate 1973, 50 acres of Ngorongo tea estate, 13,900 shares in Ngorongo tea factory and some shares in MECOL limited gifted to Isabella Karanja-daughter to the late Karuga. The matter will be mentioned on July 28 for directions as the family is still in discussions with a view of achieving mutual agreement on the outstanding issues. 