As institutions of accountability or watchdogs, parties must demonstrate that they are meticulous with their financial reporting. It is not entirely thorough as of the moment. While parties deserve to be financed to enable them carry out their democratic duties, it befits them to be accountable. Political parties form an essential part of the governance landscape. They develop policy, recruit future representatives and leaders, and prepare them to take the country’s leadership. We want to appeal to the political parties to pull up their socks because the tax-paying Kenyans want to see a valuable return on investments in the monies they are putting into their parties. A casual check at the records in the Registrar of Political Parties office will show that most of the parties are not meticulous in their financial reporting. We demand that as the public watchdogs, our political parties must lead by example in as far as accountability is concerned. There are three aspects of improving the situation. First, the distribution of funds by the government does not even amount to the 0.3 per cent of the total revenues as required by law. It should begin with the government. Please respect the law and give the 0.3 per cent of the revenue collected. Second, we need to relook at the funding regime, especially the formula. The formula is very discriminatory as it is. Because we are in a devolved system, there are parties that will only have an interest in the counties and not at the national level. So how do we help them purse their democratic ambitions? They must be helped at the grassroots. Lastly, there must be mechanisms to ensure parties utilise money as set out. Why should a party remain in the books of the Registrar of Political Parties if  it has remained dormant for the last three financial years? Parties that are non-compliant, especially on financial matters, need to be struck off the books. We need to run a very comprehensive audit on compliance and remove those breaking the law. Critical questions should be asked by the Registrar of Political Parties, the National Treasury and the Auditor General. Frank Mukwanja, the executive director at Centre for Multiparty Democracy, spoke to the Star 