The government has cautioned Kenyans against lumping all those feeling unwell and assuming they are Covid-19 patients. Health CAS Dr Mercy Mwangangi on Friday said this has largely contributed to stigma among communities. In the daily status brief at Afya House, Mwangangi further said not every death across the country was related to the virus. “People have been dropping dead even before Covid-19. It is worth noting that not every person who is unwell has contracted the disease,” she said. The CAS said the perception that if one is unwell, he or she has probably contracted the disease has contributed to the low number of hospital visits. “We do not want to create unnecessary fear among our communities. In cases where people have mysteriously passed away, we have taken samples and tested to ascertain whether it is Covid-19 positive or negative,” Mwangangi said. Mwangangi said currently the country is well prepared to deal with the surging numbers. Kenya has so far reported 16,268 coronavirus cases after 667 more people tested positive in the last 24hrs. She said unfortunately 11 patients succumbed to the disease in the same period, rising the number of deaths to 274. She said some five per cent have mild symptoms with a likelihood of becoming severe and needing oxygen care. “We have another five per cent who are in critical condition needing ICU care. So as we speak, only 10 per cent of our patients would require hospital beds while the rest would be put on the home-based care,” she said. Her sentiments were echoed by Director of Public health Dr. Francis Kuria who said so far the country has a total of 298 ICU beds against 50 patients who are under ICU care. Cumulatively, Kuria said slightly over 1,000 patients are hospitalised in various health facilities across the country. “We have a total bed capacity of 12,513 across the country. As you know the President has called for a Summit with governors and Cabinet secretaries on Monday next week and after the meeting, we shall be able to tell how many counties have met the 300-bed capacity,” Kuria said. Kuria said a team from the ministry has been deployed to assess the situation around the counties. With regards to where the surging numbers are being drawn from, CAS Mwangangi said there is an Emergency Operation Centre based at the Afya Annex which is the nerve beat of all the response across the country. She said the centre is in charge of rapid response to all alerts that are raised with regards to the disease. “We have also drawn the cases from targeted testing done to health workers, security personnel, government institutions, and courts,” she said. Mwangangi however warned that preventive measures do not stop at testing. “Measures taken after testing is what matters,  testing just gives you a sense of security but does not mean that you will not contract the disease afterward,” she said.