President Uhuru Kenyatta has praised Sports CS Amina Mohamed ahead of the World Trade Organization vote. Amina is seeking to become the next director general of WTO. The Geneva-based agency is seeking a replacement for Brazil’s Roberto Azevedo who is stepping down a year early at the end of August at a critical juncture for the trade watchdog. In a statement on Thursday, Uhuru said Amina is a uniquely qualified person to lead the WTO at this critical time. "The length and breadth of her experience with the WTO and the multilateral trading system combined with her extensive track record in international relations and her political experience, I believe is unparalleled," he said. If selected, Amina would be the first African and indeed, the first woman to serve at the helm of the World Trade Organization. Uhuru said Amina has devoted a significant part of her professional career championing the benefits of trade. This, he said, is to alleviate poverty and improve living standards not only in Kenya but across the world. "From a personal perspective, my experience working with her over the years and watching her work with others has convinced me that she is an effective leader and without doubt, a master consensus builder. She listens to advice and works hard always to find common ground," he said. "...her leadership at the WTO will without doubt be a game changer, that will enable this important institution to meet the requirements of its Member States and to better address the evolving demands of the 21st Century, and this, led by a proven consensus-builder." The President said with Amina's outstanding credentials, she will enjoy broad support from countries across the world. Amina, a former Kenyan ambassador to the WTO and the first woman to chair the WTO’s General Council in 2005, is the sixth candidate to be officially nominated, alongside others from Egypt, Nigeria, South Korea, Mexico and Moldova. Three of them are women. Nominations closed on Wednesday. There is broad support for an African candidate and a woman, since neither have headed the Geneva-based body in the past, sources following the process said.