This year's candidates for the KCPE and KCSE exams could resume learning alongside students in institutions of higher learning like colleges and universities. Sources say the decision to allow candidates to return to class is part of the resolution on the partial reopening of schools. Sources familiar with the development said Education CS George Magoha will on Monday meet stakeholders over the planned reopening. The CS will meet with Kenya Secondary School Heads Association chairman Indimuli Kahi and his counterpart for primary schools Nicholas Gathemia. It was not clear if union officials will attend the meeting. The unions want schools to reopen in January. The plan to reopen in September remains on the table despite Ministry of Health warning that the coronavirus infections could peak in September. Two weeks ago, Magoha announced that schools will not reopen until the infection curve is flattened. Some 1.93 million candidates have registered for this year’s national tests, Kenya National Examinations Council data shows. Out of these, 1,187,517 registered for the KCPE while 751,150 for the KCSE exam. A document from the Education ministry has proposed that technical training institutions be reopened, citing their low enrolments. The institutions have a student population of slightly above 400,000 while universities have more than half a million students. The document signed by Magoha was presented to the National Assembly's Education Committee on Thursday. The MPs wanted to know how the ministry plans to handle schools upon reopening. "The Ministry of Education will consider prioritising the reopening of technical training colleges subject to observing all coronavirus protocols due to their low enrolment," the document says. In case of a delay in reopening, the document notes that universities and TVETs will virtually admit and conduct orientations for new students. President Uhuru Kenyatta in May directed the Education ministry to restructure the school calendar by mid-August. However, there are indications the government may have shelved the initial plan to reopen primary and secondary schools in September. Recommendations presented to the President propose schools reopen in January next year. The new dates were endorsed by stakeholders, including unions within the Education sector. The proposal was informed by projections showing Covid-19 infections could peak in September. The document says the Teachers Service Commission shall identify teachers with underlying health conditions and those aged 58 and above for assignment of appropriate duties. Teaching staff will be required to report at least 14 days before reopening for orientation on the health safety protocols to be observed. The teachers will be required to ensure that teaching, learning, research and boarding facilities adhere to social distancing protocols.  Edited by P.O