Activist Okiya Omtatah wants the Employment Court to compel President Uhuru Kenyatta to submit the names of the 41 proposed judges to Parliament for vetting. Omtatah says close to one year since the Judicial Service Commission recommended the nominees to the President, he has sat on the list, instead of presenting it to MPs for vetting as required by law. The activist has also faulted the High Court for entertaining the petitions that were taken before it relating to the judges, arguing that it has no jurisdiction to hear such cases. "The disturbing trend where High Court judges decline jurisdiction in all other labour and employment matters, but assume jurisdiction over labour and employment disputes involving fellow judges, simply because it is one of their own, is both unconstitutional and untidy,” Omtatah argued. The High Court has heard and determined two separate matters relating to the appointment of judges and ordered the President to have them sworn in. However, Uhuru has declined, saying some of them have integrity issues. Omtatah says the High Court acted in vain when it heard and determined the cases and even though the matters are before the Court of Appeal, he believes the High Court was no competent to address the issue. “Further and most important, being an employment and labour relations dispute, the High Court acted in vain since it did not have jurisdiction to determine labour disputes, irrespective of whether they involve the employment of judges,” he argues. According to court papers, judges are public employees like any other, are paid from public coffers and are not elected officials, hence cases relating to them should be handled by the Employment and Labour Court and not the High Court. "The framers of the Constitution placed a limitation on the exercise of the President’s powers to appoint public officials by stating categorically that the President shall nominate and, with the approval of the National Assembly, appoint, and may dismiss any other state or public officer whom the Constitution requires or empowers the President to appoint or dismiss,” Omtatah says. In his view, the National Assembly, being a body representing the people, exercises oversight and control over the President’s power to appoint public officials “This ensures that the President cannot strike a deal with a recruiting agency to saddle Kenyans with his henchmen in public office,” court documents read. Omtatah says the President has an obligation to seek and receive the approval of Parliament before he makes any appointments of state or public officers whom the Constitution requires or empowers him to appoint “The appointment by the President of state officers, such as that of the judges in issue herein, is not an event and a mere formality; it is an obligatory detailed and hallowed process involving the vetting and approval of prospective appointees by the National Assembly,” he argues. 