A herdsboy shot by suspected bandits in Noosukro, Baringo South on Friday and died Saturday was a Standard 8 pupil at Kiserian Boarding and Day Primary School. Lemari Mwaitano, 14, was shot by bandits believed to be from Pokot while herding his family head of cattle. “He succumbed on Saturday to abdomen bullet injuries at the county referral hospital in Kabarnet town,” Marigat OCPD Bonjolive Munuve said. The bandits drove away over 100 animals towards Paka hills and Silale in neighbouring Tiaty subcounty. The attack happened amid a security operation to flush out the armed bandits in the county. “Our officers are alert on the ground. We have already marked the bandits in their hideouts and ready to smoke them out,” Munuve said. Mwaitano was with Ilchamus herder Dancan Lekichep, 22, who was also shot and injured on the right thigh and admitted in the same hospital. The boy's death means seven people have lost their lives to bandits in parts of Baringo North and South since January. Kiserian Primary School head teacher Johnson Tiren said the boy was an orphan who had a promising future. “He was a hardworking, humble and disciplined pupil,” Tiren said on Thursday. He said the orphan was sponsored at the school by the United States-based Friends of Kenya Schools and Wildlife (USFKSW) network. The boy's cousin Bellamy Maitano said the teenager was at home after schools closed due to the Covid-19 outbreak in March. Bellamy said the boy lost his parents as a five-months-old. “He has since stayed with us and was brought up in our home,” he said. He said the family had called for a fundraiser for the funeral at Eldume, near Marigat town on Saturday. “We have got nothing left after the bandits stole all the animals we had,” he said. Tension is still high in the area as Ilchamus and Tugen herders have fled with their animals to safer grounds like Kiserian and Sandai. Area Youth leader Olesupen Leshaan blamed security officers at Kiserian Camp for failing to repulse the bandits during the attack. Leshaan blamed the government for not putting in place proper measures to end the perennial bandit attacks that have caused residents’ suffering since 2005. “Since then until recently, primary schools such as Mukutani, Rugus and Noosukro remained closed,” he said. In February last year, four other school children were shot and killed in the same area while spending their midterm holiday. The students – one from Kiserian Primary, two from Sokotei Primary and another from Sokotei Secondary - were killed in a dawn attack. Baringo South MP Charles Kamuren condemned the attacks saying his people now live in fear. “This is so unfortunate, the government should do something immediately to see to it that our people are safe,” he said. Kamuren and Baringo North MP William Cheptumo have appealed to the government to consider rearming the National Police Reservists in the area. (edited by o. owino)