Three weeks after fire razed their houses and businesses, residents of Gorofani area in Gikomba market are still nursing mental and physical scars. Many of them remain homeless, with no cent in their pockets to sustain themselves during the tough economic period precipitated by the corona pandemic. Lucy Ashira, 46, is a bitter woman. She lost her home, business and the trust of her son, who she depended on to overcome this trying period. “Ever since the first day that he came and took me to hospital, he has not called me again. I think he is mad at me because his certificates that I had kept for him were also burnt in the fire,” she says. Lucy, who owns a grocery at the expansive market, suffered burns on the right side of her body but has been unable to access quality treatment. “I am required to part with Sh500 per day for treating and dressing the wounds. Now I can’t raise that amount so I just treat myself with warm water mixed with glycerin,” she says. Although she has found temporary shelter at a friend’s house in Eastleigh, the cold treatment from her housemates has made her contemplate moving out. “They do not tell me directly to move out but they sometimes tell me to at least take a walk outside. But how can I walk outside when people avoid me and give me weird stares,” Lucy says. She now covers herself with a leso to enable her mingle easily with other people. The thought of losing her customers because her business has ground to a halt compounds her misery. “If my wounds would have healed by now, I would be able to go to the market and acquire new stock. But you see even lifting things up is difficult, so I’ve had to wait until I can recover,” Lucy says. MOTHERHOOD NIGHTMARE For Winnie Muthoni, 34, the past two weeks have stretched her mothering abilities to the limit. Her house and business were burnt down in the same week she had given birth to her fourth child. “When the fire started, I was so weak and could only think of rescuing my baby. She was affected by the smoke, although not so much,” Winnie, a fruit vendor, says. Because of the weighty matters on her mind, Winnie has been struggling to sleep. “I always just sit in bed, wondering what the future holds and asking questions as to why this happened to me at this particular time,” Winnie, who has lived in Gorofani for 18 years, says. She has secured a new house at Saika area along Kangundo Road, although she needs to pay Sh5,500 for rent, which she does not have. Currently, she is among over 20 people who have found solace in a one-bedroom house at the Solidarity Building in Gikomba market – never mind the dangers of corona infections. Mama Eugene, one of those staying in the house, says, “On the first day, we were around 50 people in here before others moved out. Everyone slept in the smallest space they could find, and we shared the little we had.” The owner of the house, Abubakar, also lost his investments in the fire. Born and raised in the Gorofani area, Abubakar lost his carwash, barber shop, hardware and salon that were his sources of income. “I don’t know how I will even pay rent for next month. Already, I am spending close to Sh7,000 per day to cater for all the people in this house,” Abubakar says. The fact that the government has not communicated on the way forward irks him more and compounds his misery. “They should have offered us solutions even before demolishing these houses. Whoever is behind the fires and the demolitions should imagine their children spending many nights in the cold,” the father of two says. His grandmother, who prefers to be called Mom, is tired of crying out to the government for help whenever the fires occur. Aged 65, her house was burnt down before in 2014 and she was among those who were interviewed by the media. “Even if I talk, there is nothing that will be done. Now, I just leave things in God’s hands. I do not even want to live in Nairobi anymore. I'm just waiting for the economy to be reopened so I can go back to my rural home in Murang’a,” she said. Her wish was granted last Monday. A diabetic, her blood sugar levels had risen exponentially during the fateful Thursday morning as she was worn down with worries about the safety of her four grandchildren, who live with her. HELPLESS FATHER Erick Kamene watched helplessly as his bar business burnt to ashes. His young family looking unto him, Erick is stung by the painful realisation he cannot do much for them. “Even if the cessation order in Nairobi was lifted, I do not have the money to take my family to our rural home in Kitui. Right now, we have not eaten anything since morning,” he said ahead of the reopening. The events on the night of June 26 are still vivid for Amigo, whose source of livelihood was reduced to ashes. “We were sitting around a fire that night when we saw a green bulldozer. Before we knew it, the little that was left of our houses and properties was reduced to nothing,” Amigo says. When the Star caught up with him three weeks ago, he was slumped in a worn-out sofa and cuddling his mattress, which was the only possession he could salvage. This past week, he was busy collecting building blocks from the what remains of the building that housed 112 units. “I have been doing mjengo just to get by because there is nothing much to do. When it comes to sleeping, I just find a place among the vibandas (sheds) until morning,” he says. A report by the Task Force on Mental Health in Kenya released two weeks ago paints a gloomy picture ahead as Covid-19 continues to ravage the livelihoods of many Kenyans. The Frank Njenga-led task force projects that the prevalence of mental disorders will soar higher as economic hardships persist for most Kenyans. HOW TO REBOUND Maurine Gikonyo, a mental health advocate and co-founder of Speak Mind Love Foundation, says such victims are likely to experience anxiety disorders resulting from repeated tragedies in their lives. “Anxiety is a common emotion that can occur even under normal circumstances. However, in cases where one has suffered losses, it may be extreme due to an uncertain future,” she says. Just like the loss of a loved one, Gikonyo says loss of property may drag victims into the different stages of grief. “The victims may start to question the happenings in their lives and why it had to be them that suffered the unfortunate incident. With depression, many tend to blame themselves, society or even the government,” she says. Some victims may experience post-traumatic stress disorder, especially where physical injuries or a threatening situation is involved. At such distressful times, those affected may throw caution to the wind in favour of harmful habits, such as substance abuse, reckless sexual behaviour and poor eating habits. “Drugs only suppress the emotional pain temporarily but may be a gateway to other health problems, such as addiction,” Gikonyo says. She advises victims to talk out their feelings to close family and friends. “This creates the space and opportunity for you to formulate the next step. It is also important to forgive yourself and take the time to heal,” she says. By speaking to the Star regarding their mental anguish, Gikomba fire victims have taken the first step towards healing their mental scars. As they heal internally, it is imperative that the government lends a helping hand to lift them from the ash heap of their incinerated livelihoods. Edited by T Jalio