Lancet risks closure after the Health ministry directed the medical board to relook into its testing activities. The laboratory has been hit by several controversies surrounding Covid-19 test results, after some returned positive and later tested negative at Kemri. The recent case involves 17 members of staff of St Andrew’s, Turi who tested positive for the virus but later tested negative when they went for a second test. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe on Thursday warned Kenyans against visiting such labs for testing, saying should the laboratory be found not to be performing in accordance with the rules, it will be closed. Kagwe noted that the government has a responsibility to ensure the labs being licensed are working in a credible manner. “It is so important for us to keep people informed in such a manner that is true because the worst thing that we can do is have a situation where people question the results that we give,” he said. Lancet CEO Ahmed Kalebi has, however, maintained that the tests conducted by Lancet are very specific and maintained that positive results are real, adding that false-negatives may occur in up to 20 per cent of swabs done especially in mild or asymptomatic individuals. “It is not the first time. If you are hearing from people that a lab has got all these unclear results, don’t go there. Why are you going for a test to a lab that you know has been giving information that has not been clear?” Kagwe asked. In the past two weeks, the laboratory has been investigated and inspections carried out by several government agencies, including the National Covid-19 Command Centre. Speaking in Nakuru, the CS said the decision to either escalate or de-escalate containment measures will depend on the behaviour exhibited by Kenyans. On Wednesday, Council of Governors chairperson Wycliffe Oparanya threatened that counties will be forced to lock down their borders as cases continue to rise since the restrictions on movement were eased on July 6. But the CS said the numbers being witnessed are unusual and in line with the modeling projections. “Let us make it clear that the escalation or de-escalation of measures is purely dependent on the behaviours of Kenyans. It is not the government that will want to lock down, it is because people will not be behaving that we will have to force a lockdown.” Host Governor Lee Kinyanjui said after some of the restrictions were relaxed, the counties have witnessed a double increase in positive cases, adding that Kenyans have returned to life before the virus. “And I think this is a very worrying trend. Over the weekend, I was just looking at the traffic on our main highway and we had a total traffic jam from Naivasha all the way up,” Kinyanjui said in Nakuru. As of Thursday, the number of positive cases in the country was at 11,673 after 421 more cases were confirmed. However, the highest number of recoveries was recorded at 570 out of which 512 were home-based care patients and 58 from various health facilities countrywide. The total number of patients who have successfully recovered now stands at 3,638. The new cases are aged between one year and 93 years, comprising 297 men and 124 women. Nairobi leads in the number of new infections with 6,491 cases, followed by Mombasa with 1,783 and Kiambu with 640 cases confirmed since March 13. Eight more patients, however, succumbed to the virus, bringing the total number of fatalities in the country to 217. Edited by R.Wamochie