A senate ad hoc committee will summon three former government officials to shed light on the Sh63 billion medical kits deal. Former Attorney General Githu Muigai, former Health Cabinet Secretary Cleopa Mailu and his Principal Secretary Khadija Kassachoon oversaw the signing of the deal. The nine-member committee chaired by Senator Fatuma Dullo will meet on Tuesday when they are expected to issue the summons. Dullo told the Star that the former officials had earlier been summoned to shed light on the deal but did not show up. “We had invited them but they refused to come. We are sitting on Tuesday and if they fail to come again, we will go ahead and compile our report without their input,” the Isiolo representative said. According to a source in the committee, the three sent statements to the committee detailing their non-appearance. “The committee will discuss those statements and definitely issue summons as the last resort,” the source said. As AG, Muigai was the chief legal adviser to the Health ministry when the multi-billion-shilling programme was signed in 2015. Mailu, who is Kenya’s permanent representative to the UN in Geneva, Switzerland, was at the helm of the user ministry when the contract was varied in 2017. Kassachoon was the chief accounting officer at the time the contracts were signed at State House. Initially, the contract, signed at State House on  February 6, 2015, was worth Sh38 billion but the deal was varied and the contract sum increased to Sh63 billion. Last year, Mailu’s successor Sicily Kariuki told the committee that contract amounts increased from Sh38 billion to Sh63 billion after the number of hospitals benefiting from the programme was increased. Kariuki also explained that the procurement of a Sh4.9 million automated system - Healthcare Information Technology (HCIT) to inter-link the facilities. MES involves leasing of assorted medical equipment – including ICU facilities, surgical theatres, radiology and renal equipment – to 104 select county and national government hospitals. The programme has been criticised as a rip off with Council of Governors saying the taxpayers got a raw deal. This prompted the investigation, which has been ongoing since September last year. The committee has grilled several government officials including former Health CS James Macharia, ex-director of Medical Services Nicholas Muraguri and directors of the seven international firms that won the contracts. Governors say they were coerced to sign the memorandum of understanding that occasioned the leasing of the hi-tech equipment. “Leasing of the contentious medical equipment is directly debited to our budgets. None of the 47 governors knows why he/she signed, for or where the money goes to,” CoG chairman Wycliffe Oparanya told the committee last year. Currently, each of the 47 county governments pays Sh200 million annually through grants advanced to them by the Ministry of Health. Some equipment, according to the committee and the county chiefs, is still gathering dust in boxes, with only two years to the end of the contract. Last month, a report titled, “The Leasing of Equipment Project in Kenya: Value for Money Assessment" authored by the Institute of Economic Affairs disclosed that some of the equipment was still tight in cartons and yet to be supplied. “Besides, lack of transparency on the entire project with regard to the terms and conditions of the contract and poor regulation of this typical public private/ partnership project increases financial and corruption risks,” reads the report.  - mwaniki fm