The family of Ohangla musician Lady Maureen who died on Saturday have asked the government to allow them enough time to mourn her death. Lady Maureen's mother Margret Atieno said they were preparing for her burial, and that the government should relax the strict laws governing burial ceremonies in a bid to tackle spread of Covid-19. Atieno has also urged politicians and her fans to support them in her burial. Maureen Achieng died while receiving home based care treatment at her sister’s home in Uriri sub-county, Migori. Following the news of her demise, their home in Kopanga village in Suna West sub-county became a beehive of activity as mourners and fans started thronging in. Somber mood engulfed the homestead as family members referred to her as  their torchbearer. “Her demise has left us in shock, she was our torch bearer and we request politician and her fans who walked with her in her music career to help us give her a befitting send off,” Atieno said. During her music career, the ardent Gor Mahia and ODM party leader Raila Odinga fan, sang songs that were anthems in games by the team and political rallies graced by Raila. She also sang about love, religion and helped shore up politician and aspirants during political campaigns for songs or special mention on her songs, which made or broke politician profiles. Atieno said the singer had been discharged from Pastor Machage Hospital, which was the last center she was in a three year battle with sickness. “She was bedridden for the past year, before she departed this morning. We are still in shock,” she said. Bella Akinyi, the cousin, who was last with the musician said she was “undertaking home based care after being discharged at Pastor Machage hospital in Migori town, she has passed on.” Maureen Achieng’ was born on November 22, 1984 at Seme Kombewa village and has produced several popular songs, mostly singing about key politicians in Luo nation. Rumours of Lady Maureen death and health had been circulating on social media for long, forcing the musician to record a video confirming she was still alive.