 Kwale Kaya elders have united to defend the Kaya Tiwi Forest land in Matuga subcounty from being grabbed by tycoons. The elders have raised the red flag after trees were allegedly felled by a private developer leading to massive destruction of indigenous trees and sacred shrines. The angry elders said the invasion of coastal Kaya forests by developers is alarming. They want the government to intervene. Led by chairman Kassim Mnyeto, the elders want the government to revoke all title deeds of gazetted forests given to investors. Kaya is a sacred forest of the Mijikenda people in the former Coast province. In Kwale, there are over 18 Kayas whose lands have become the central focus for grabbers, Mnyeto said. They said Kaya Tiwi was declared a national monument by the National Museums of Kenya terming it shocking that there are intruders developing the land for personal benefit. “This land holds our cultural heritage. We have trees and wells that are over 200 years old. The ruins of the colonial district commissioner’s quarters are here and NMK certified it. Why are we seeing constructions in here?” Mnyeto asked. The elders demanded that the government reveal the people behind the grabbing, questioning how they came to possess deeds for public lands. He said Kaya Tiwi is not just a museum but a sacred place that holds the traditions of all Tiwi residents. The elders warned that ancestors are not happy and if the destruction continues, 'the spirits will fight back ruthlessly'. Kaya Tiwi vice-chairman Ali Ngoni Mwazuzu accused the government of doing nothing while forest land is being taken. He said it is a major disrespect to Kaya elders and the Mijikenda communities to destroy their shrines. Mwazuzu said they won’t give up the land easily and gave authorities a four-day ultimatum to act or perform rituals for ancestors to deal with the perpetrators. “We are a peace-loving people and we want it that way. Should the government fail to address this issue. We will be forced to take further measures,” he said. But residents claim some elders betrayed their colleagues. Juma Abdallah Mwazuzu warned leaders against being part of the illegal selling of lands. “Perpetrators are amongst us and that behaviour must end,” Mwazuzu said. Kaya shrine is about 22 acres and the investor claims ownership of almost 14 acres, the elders said.  Edited by R.Wamochie