West Pokot, Samburu and Baringo are the only counties so far without recorded positive Covid-19 cases. The main reason is the distance from the main Nakuru-Eldoret-Malaba highway where truck drivers are blamed for transmitting  Covid-19. Other factors are sparse population, limited travel, especially in the rains, reduced social activities and adherence to Covid-19 control measures. The three counties are members of the North Rift Economic Bloc,  in which five other member counties have recorded a combined total of more than 203 cases. Uasin Gishu, the most populous county, has recorded more than 166 cases, the most in the economic bloc. Other Noreb counties with confirmed cases are Turkana with 22, Nandi eight, Trans Nzoia six and Elgeyo Marakwet one. “We are insisting on full adherence to the government control measures to ensure  we stop the spread of the virus not only in West Pokot but also all the other counties," Governor John Longyangapuo said.. He said if Kenyans fully adhere to the control measures, the Covid-19 curve will flatten faster. Baringo has lost several people who died in other counties and were brought back for burial. Health officials in the three counties have used the lengthy period without confirmed cases to increase their capacity to handle Covid-19 cases. West Pokot and Baringo and have installed at least 10 ICU beds each along with more than 200 beds each. Like all the county chiefs in the region, Governor Jackson Mandago of Uasin Gishu has stepped up staff training to handle Covid-19. Uasin Gishu Health executive Evelyne Rotich said more than 500 healthcare staff have been trained. Training on safe burials also has been done. Rotich said measures have been put in place to ensure health workers are protected and residents treated. The county ensures workers in all health facilities have full personal protective equipment. All health workers have been taken through rigorous training on how to identify and handle suspected Covid-19 cases, she said. All health facilities have hand washing points, sanitiser, thermal guns and they enforce social distancing and limit visitors. (Edited by V. Graham)