The DPP and Ipoa have rejected calls to hold police superiors responsible for the excesses and abuses by individual officers under their command and following their orders. Deputy Director of Public Prosecutions Dorcas Oduor and Ann Makori, chairperson of the Independent Policing Oversight Authority, on Tuesday said holding commanders responsible would be unlawful. The law requires individual officers to refuse to carry out illegal and inappropriate orders by their superiors, they told a web conference with civil society groups. International Commission of Jurists-Kenya chairman Kelvin Mogeni and Amnesty Internal board chair Rene Ngamau had pressed to hold commanding officers responsible. They said superiors should be accountable if they issue orders resulting in brutality, harassment or death of unarmed innocent civilians. “The Police Service is discipline-based and officers operate strictly on orders. If an officer uses excessive force or conducts any such violation, not just him or herself, but also the commanding superior presumed to have issued such orders should also be held accountable by the oversight agencies,” Ngamau argued. Participants in the conference included Police Internal Affairs Unit director Mohammed Amin. LSK president Nelson Havi previously called for holding superiors who issue such orders responsible. This would ensure that violating human rights and impunity by officers was costly, he said. LSK had petitioned the High Court to hold Police IG Hillary Mutyambai personally responsible for the brutality and deaths attributed to police officers enforcing the Covid-19 curfew. Oduor said though the DPP was fully committed to holding officers accountable, it must be done with regard to due process and the law. She said there are international instruments on holding commanding officers accountable but this first must be made part of Kenyan law. That hasn’t happened yet and the law holds each officer personally responsible, Oduor said. To rein in errant officers, she said, the DPP had created a special team of prosecutors dedicated to handling cases of brutality and fast-tracking them. Ipoa’s Makori said there are adequate mechanisms to oversight the police. Kenya is the second country after South Africa to have a civilian arrangement to investigate police malpractices, she said, referring to Ipoa. “Officers are empowered to reject unlawful orders. Those who execute orders that are illegal are held personally responsible,” Makori told the activists. Further, a commanding officer could tell his men to enforce the curfew, but would not order them to beat, harass or shoot civilians while doing so. Only in exceptional circumstances in which it is hard to single out the officers involved in brutality does Ipoa go after their superiors, Makori said. She cited the example of the killing of Baby Pendo in Kisumu during the 2017 post-election violence in which officers in the command structure were recommended for prosecution. IAU director Amin rejected claims that officers continue to operate armed, even after being accused of brutalising or killing a civilian and while investigations were ongoing. "Once an officer has been subjected to due process of the law, they are interdicted ... [and with that], their powers, privileges and immunity are put in abeyance," he said. Amin also announced that an officer has been interdicted in connection with the shooting death of a disabled man in Lessos, Nandi county, during a riot on June 25. (Edited by V. Graham) 