World Cup fans will be able to watch an unprecedented four games a day on television, spread out over 11 hours, during the group stage of the Qatar 2022 tournament after the schedule was confirmed on Wednesday. With the relatively short travel distances for the venues in and around Doha, it could be possible for fans who travel to the 32-team tournament to attend multiple games each day. The early games will kickoff at 1300 local (1000GMT) with the fourth match starting at 2200 local (1900GMT) and finishing just before midnight. The tournament’s opening game on November 21, will be at the 60,000 capacity Al Bayt Stadium, with its distinctive ‘tent’ style covering. The final on December 18 will be held at the 80,000 Lusail Stadium, which, like Al Bayt, will also host a semi-final. "The World Cup is always a festival of football, a real celebration for the fans who come on-site and watch. In Qatar, with the compact nature, this is going to be amplified even more with 32 teams and 32 sets of supporters all in and around Doha," said Fifa Chief Tournaments and Events Officer, Colin Smith. Fifa will wait until the draw for the tournament is held in March or April of 2022 before assigning specific games to venues and time-slots. That will enable them to better align games with time zones for domestic television partners of the competing teams. The tournament was switched from it's usual June-July slot due to the heat in the Gulf state and is the first that will be held in the middle of the European season. Nasser Al Khater, CEO of the Qatar World Cup organising company, said plans for the tournament were well on schedule with 90% of the work finished on roads and infrastructure. "When we talk about the stadiums, more than 85% of the work has been completed and really now, the last two years, we're focusing on our operation readiness and making sure we get the fan experience plans in place," he said. Meanwhile, Egypt and Tunisia have both said they are prepared to host the semi-finals and final of this year’s African Champions League. The Confederation of African Football (Caf) is looking to replace Cameroon who on Monday withdrew from hosting the matches due to a spike in coronavirus infections in the country. The Tunisia Football Federation (FTF) insists it should be hosting the games, which are planned for September. “When Caf first sent the call for countries to host the matches, we applied alongside Cameroon,” FTF spokesman Amine Mougou told BBC Sport Africa. “It should be the standard procedure that we would be next in line, should Cameroon fall short on their commitments. “We are prepared and willing to host the matches if we receive a request from Caf. The only thing left for us to do would be to coordinate with local authorities on organisational matters.” The Egypt Football Association has also put itself forward as hosts. “I talked with Ashraf Sobhi, the sports and youth minister, who stressed Egypt’s readiness to host such a major event,” EFA member Mohamed Fadl told Time Sports TV channel. “We have already done for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations and the under-23’s. We seek to help both Ahly and Zamalek in the Champions League by hosting the remaining games in Egypt.” The semi-finals are both set to be Morocco against Egypt as Al Ahly play Wydad Casablanca while Zamalek take on Raja Casablanca. Before the postponement of sport around the globe, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the semi-finals were set to be played over two legs home and away with the final a one-off match on neutral territory for the first time ever. Last month the Caf executive committee decided that the Champions League and the Confederation Cup will resume in September in a final four format and the semi-finals reduced to a single match. The Confederation Cup matches will be played in Morocco.