Pastoralist communities living along the Kenya-Ethiopia border in Marsabit have proposed an inter-state approach in addressing cattle rustling. The residents from Moyale and Sololo subcounties have for a long time borne the brunt of cattle theft owing to the porous border which makes it hard for adequate policing from both sides. They say negotiations between the two countries could help in tackling the problem, which has not only cost residents property but also lives. During a peace meeting between the local Borana and Wajir's Degodia communities in Moyale, Sololo Peace Committee chairperson Galmah Dabaso said the free movement of people and livestock across the border was an enabling environment for cattle rustling. Dabaso regretted that the illegal livestock trade along the border had also encouraged the proliferation of illegal firearms used to execute the raids. “Unless the free movement of people and livestock across this border is put under check, these cartels will continue to thrive,” he said. The meeting was attended by Moyale MP Qalicha Gufu, his Eldas counterpart Adan Keynan, Moyale DCC Patrick Mumali, Sololo DCC Dennis Kyeti and their Eldas colleague Vincent Lamachar. Peace committee members asked the government to facilitate talks with the Ethiopian authorities for a long-lasting agreement that would help keep track of those who cross the border with animals. They said cattle rustling has been commercialised with cartels involved taking advantage of the porous border to move stolen animals into Ethiopia. Moyale Peace Committee chairman Mohammed Nurr called on the Kenyan and Ethiopian governments to devise a method that would prompt application of bilateral efforts to curb the vice. The officials agreed to foster a harmonious co-existence where conflicts arising from grazing resources would be resolved amicably. Combined efforts between security agencies and elders helped in the recovery of 620 camels, 300 goats and four donkeys that were stolen from the Degodia community on June 6. Wajir businessman Roble Garad lauded the commitment shown by leaders and community elders from both Marsabit and Wajir counties in recovering the stolen livestock and reconciling the communities. Chiefs were highly commended for their critical role in the recovery of the livestock and peace-building among members of the two neighbours. Edited by R.Wamochie