  Swarms of locust in Kenya have reduced and many more are expected to migrate to South Sudan where there are favourable conditions for survival and breeding. The Food and Agriculture Organization says immature swarms remain in Turkana and Marsabit counties where aerial control operations continue. According to FAO’s desert locust watch, some swarms are likely to migrate northwards into Ethiopia where they will disperse to mature and breed. “This, together with current infestations, are likely to cause a further increase in locust populations in Ethiopia. Some swarms could appear in the western lowlands of Eritrea and breed,” the report says. Coumba Sow, FAO’s Resilience Coordinator for the region, said national surveillance operations are in full swing and control measures are ready because of the major early warning and rapid response effort. The desert locust is considered the most destructive migratory pest in the world. A single swarm covering one square kilometre contains up to 80 million locusts and can eat the same amount of food in one day as about 35,000 people. Locust numbers increase 20 times in three months with every new generation. “We have witnessed the unprecedented desert locust threat to food security and livelihoods in East Africa, and we are doing everything we can to prevent a similar crisis repeating itself in the Sahel region, which is already experiencing several ongoing crises,” Sow said. The locust watch showed swarms that bred in spring in East Africa are now shifting to the summer breeding areas. Countries west of the Horn of Africa have been asked to remain on high alert. “Most of the swarms in northwest Kenya are expected to ride winds carrying them north to cross into South Sudan and into Sudan. Unless it rains more in Sudan’s desert, providing favourable breeding conditions for the pests, the locusts will not stay in Sudan for long and would instead move west through the Sahel of West Africa in search of food and favourable breeding areas,” FAO says. Mohamed Hamouny, executive secretary of FAO’s Commission for Controlling the Desert Locust in the Western Region, said large numbers of swarms have formed in Kenya and Ethiopia since January. He said the swarms could move west in the coming weeks, threatening fields, pastures and livelihoods. Hamouny said FAO has been working closely with countries at risk to coordinate a major preparation campaign in case the worst happens. “We have been preparing for this potential crisis for many months. For now, countries remain on high alert because invasions can be difficult to predict, we must be well prepared in advance and ready to respond as quickly and effectively as possible when swarms arrive,” Hamouny said.  Edited by P.O