An initiative by the Catholic Archdiocese of Nyeri and the Diocese of Kitui to feed more than 10,000 needy families has received a Sh1 million boost from the NSSF. The Hope4U initiative, which was launched in April, targeted to raise about Sh120 million to help households affected by Covid-19. Catholic Archdiocese of Nyeri Archbishop Anthony Muheria said on Saturday that the donation has raised the amount contributed to close to Sh30 million. He said the church has already disbursed Sh12.5 million to 5,500 families in Nyeri, Kitui and other regions. “We send via M-Pesa and each family gets Sh2,500,” Muheria said. The cleric said 40 per cent of the beneficiaries are from Nyeri, 35 from Kitui while the remaining 25 per cent are from other regions. Muheria who spoke outside Our Lady of Consolata Cathedral Church in Nyeri, where he received the donation from the National Social Security Fund, said the fifth disbursement will be made in a week or two. He said the difficult time may be longer than the church anticipated and called on well-wishers to continue contributing towards the initiative so that more families can be helped. Contributors can pay via M-Pesa pay bill 4023131 to the account Hope or through Cooperative Bank account No. 01128991686700. The archbishop said the church will ensure that every donated cent reaches the beneficiaries adding that no cent is taxed or used for overheads. NSSF managing director Anthony Omerikwa said though the pandemic is unfortunate, it has taught Kenyans a lot of lessons, including the importance of saving for a rainy day. “This is so that you can continue enjoying a decent livelihood should we be attacked or have a situation like the pandemic we are having now,” he said. He said the NSSF senior management team will also contribute towards the initiative. The church also has a second initiative - Good Shepherd Call Centre – to offer spiritual support and free counselling services. It has a toll-free number 0800 723 555. The call centre is meant to help address social problems such as depression, domestic violence, psychological difficulties and stress during the pandemic. Also receiving counselling are young people anxious about school, those who are dealing with drug addiction and people in quarantine. Edited by A.N