The UNDP in conjunction with Unicef and UN Women Covid-19 response programme in Kajiado on Wednesday sent off 37 UN health professionals to 14 counties. The number is part of 50 UN volunteers the supporting international agencies intend to send the 14 counties to support the national Covid-19 response. The high-level event that took place in Kajiado town is an initiative supported by the governments of Finland, Italy and Sweden. The UN bodies have planned to bolster the government’s national pandemic response. It has also been planned for county-level responses coordinated through the Ministry of Devolution and ASALs and the Council of Governors. All the volunteers were recruited by UNDP in conjunction with United Nations Volunteers and County Public Service Boards. UNDP resident representative Walid Badawi said the 50 Kenyans have healthcare experience. They will be deployed to Kakamega, Busia, Garissa, Kajiado, Machakos, Kilifi, Kiambu, Taita Taveta, Wajir, Kisumu, Migori, Mandera, Uasin Gishu and Nairobi. Badawi said interventions enacted through the programme will mitigate both the spread and impact of Covid-19 by increasing the capacity of the healthcare system, building the resilience of vulnerable populations, bolstering social protections and advocating for the rights of women. “This indeed speaks to the seriousness of the challenge Kenya faces today, alongside other countries world over. As stated by President Uhuru Kenyatta that we are at war with the virus and unless we face it head-on, Covid-19 will undermine our collective efforts towards achieving the long-term development aspirations,” Badawi said. He went on: “The deployment we are flagging off today is part of UNDP’s continued investment in the country as we support the national Covid-19 response.” The UNDP county boss told the volunteers they have been allowed to participate in furthering the work of the UN in their own country and their mission is special as it will greatly contribute to Kenya’s efforts of addressing the Covid-19 pandemic. Badawi said the socio-economic impact of the crisis threatens not only the lives of Kenyans but Kenya’s hard-fought development progress. During the event, CS Devolution and ASALs Eugene Wamalwa’s speech was read by his CAS Abdul Bahari Ali. Wamalwa said the war against Covid-19 is costly and can only be won by coming together and forming strategic partnerships. “Our efforts here today are part of such partnerships. I, therefore, want to thank all of you for finding time to be part of this process, and for your sacrifices in terms of time and resources spent towards the achievement of this programme,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori