A Nairobi court has issued a warrant of arrest against investigating officer John Munjama over the release of former CS Rashid Echesa's Range Rover and guns. The defence says even though there is a court order compelling the police to release the vehicle and the firearms, this has not been done more than a month after the ruling. Milimani senior principal magistrate Kenneth Cheruiyot ordered the Nairobi Commandant to effect the warrant. The case will be mentioned on August 3 to confirm compliance. In June, the court ordered the DCI to return Echesa’s vehicle and the guns that were impounded in February this year during his arrest. The DPP then moved to the High Court seeking to overturn Cheruiyot's ruling but the judge dismissed their appeal and directed them to comply with the court orders. Judge Luka Kimaru said upon evaluating the facts of the application, he was of the view that the magistrate did not err in law when he ordered the police to release the said property to Echesa. “It was clear to the court that the detention of the firearms and the vehicle is not connected with the pending criminal case before the trial court,” the court said. The judge said the continued detention of the firearms by the police is in contempt of the orders issued by the Kakamega court and the DPP did not dispute the existence of that order. “The DPP or the police can make appropriate application before that court to set aside or review the order but so long as that order is still in force, the police have no option but to comply with the same and release the firearms to the Echesa,” he ruled. Justice Kimaru held that there is no legal justification for the continued detention of the vehicle and the same should therefore be returned to Echesa without further ado. The court noted that Echesa had produced an affidavit from the person whom he bought the car from and she confirmed that ex-CS bought the car from her and had paid in full. Echesa told the court that the vehicle and guns have no connection with the charges he is facing in court. He was charged on February 17 with several counts of fraud in relation to the Sh39.5 billion fake arms deal.  Edited by A.N