Since the onset of the coronavirus pandemic, a significant number of people in the country have suffered mental health problems such as depression. Many people are experiencing increased levels of anxiety and concern about the possibility of infection as well as current and future job losses. According to a government report released in May, at least 3.1 million people are at risk of losing their jobs as Covid-19 continues to ravage the country's economy and more firms announcing job redundancies. In this uncertain time, mental illnesses such as anxiety, stress, loneliness, depression, frustration, and self-harm have become more prevalent and have been exacerbated by the pandemic. Ministry of Health Director General Patrick Amoth on Wednesday said the ministry is planning to train 60,000 community health workers on psychological first aid. Amoth was answering a netizen who inquired about the government's plan on dealing with mental health concerns at the community level. He said the ministry is still mapping out mental health resources in all the 47 counties. "We are further recruiting 134 psychologists, a cadre which was previously not in public service," he said. "Since psychological first aid can be delivered by any trained healthcare worker, we are broadening our trainings to tap into other cadres. The ministry is also collaborating with counties to set up county mental health teams". As a way to deal with the anxiety, the DG advised that people should avoid negative coping mechanisms such as alcohol and substance abuse, gambling and other high risk behaviours. Instead, replace these with positive coping mechanisms such as having quality time with close friends. "There is need to let go of what one cannot control in order to avoid pressure, which may lead to depression and anxiety. Adjusting expectations is a key component of promoting mental healthcare. Communication remains a key part of mental healthcare," Amoth said. "This means people should constantly be in touch with families and friends and those that have positive influence on them. Everyone needs positive energy during this pandemic." Having  good sleep patterns, good dietary habits, develop new hobbies, having a daily routine and avoiding news that cause anxiety are also some self-care tips Amoth urged Kenyans to follow.