Kakamega Homeboyz winger Peter Thiong’o has revealed his intentions to leave the Kenyan Premier League outfit when his contract expires later in the year. Speaking to the Star Sports on phone, the most sought after youthful speedster said several KPL top sides have shown interest in his signature. “We had a good run as Kakamega Homeboyz but my contract is coming to an end in November and so I will look at the offers and decide whether to make a move or renew my contract with Homeboyz," said Thiong'o. "Several teams have shown interest in me and I think when the time comes I will have to make a decision.” He also revealed his dream of playing for the national team Harambee Stars. Thiong’o singled out Homeboyz head coach Nicholas Muyoti for praise saying he is one of the best tacticians he has ever met. “I can say we have had the best coach in the Kenya Premier League, who has good pieces of training. He guides players well and actually creates a very strong bond within the playing unit. He is also friendly and that is what contributes to the good performances by the team," he added. Homeboyz team manager Boniface Imbenzi said they were negotiating for Thiong’o's stay. “But if he decides to leave, we cannot stand in his way but rather wish him well,” said Imbenzi. He advised Thiong’o to remain patient and shun wrong advice from individuals who may want to ruin his career that is slowly picking up and looks promising. “Thiong’o should remain patient, focused and continue working hard, he is still young with a lot of potential to establish himself as one of the most successful stars in the country and the region," added Imbenzi. “Kakamega Homeboyz is breaking into the top and elite clubs in the country, so many players from Kenya and the region are approaching us for consideration once the league kicks off." “This will also give other stars like Stephen Etyang, Chrispinus Masinza, Suleiman Mwinyi opportunity to showcase what they possess and we are happy for the quality we have,” Imbenzi pointed out. He promised to seek an audience with Thiong'o and get his position and future plans before they start pre-season preparations once sporting activities are allowed back. Imbenzi also revealed that the team is setting up high targets basing on the last season’s performance which surprised many and understands that expectations of the fans are so high. The combination of Thiong’o, Moses Mudavadi, Etyang and experienced Allan Wanga has remained a thorn in the flesh of many opposing teams that found it tough to pick a point in Bukhungu.