Police violence and property destruction during evictions in Kenya’s Rift Valley and a lack of support has caused deaths and desperation for the people evicted, Human Rights Watch has said. Since 2018, authorities have evicted more than 50,000 people from Mau Forest lands. Senior Africa researcher  Otsieno Namwaya said at least 6,000 of the people recently evicted are living in harsh conditions in makeshift camps in Narok county and have not been relocated or compensated as required under Kenyan law. “Violently evicting forest dwellers is unacceptable and failing to help them to relocate or supporting them during the Covid-19 pandemic is even worse,” Namwaya said. In a statement on Thursday, Namwaya said the government should urgently respond to this crisis by investigating reports of excessive force and other abuses. The Human Rights Watch visited the two camps and the town of Narok in March 2020, interviewing 37 people, including evictees and local authorities. The Rights Watch found that between August and November 2019, a combined team of 150 officers from Kenya Wildlife Service, Kenya Forest Service, Administration Police, regular police, and Narok county rangers used excessive force to evict people from 10 villages in the eastern side of the forest land, including Kitoben, Olaba, Kapkoros, and Kirobon. Witnesses and family members said at least seven people died during or after the evictions. "Kenyan authorities have not investigated these deaths and other abuses and have instead threatened to forcibly shut down the camps,"Namwaya said. Human Rights Watch also documented at least nine deaths and many injuries. Kenyan authorities told Human Rights Watch that they carried out the two phases of evictions from Mau Forest as part of a plan to save the forest’s ecosystem, a source of at least 12 rivers feeding into 3 lakes within the East African region, which they said is under threat from illegal settlement and deforestation, among other factors. Namway said States have the responsibility to ensure compensation for the displaced communities, irrespective of whether they hold title deeds. "The authorities should also respect the right to property of any individual, family, or community that owned the land, including those owning land under customary law," he said. "The Kenyan government has a duty under international human rights law to ensure that everyone in Kenya has a decent standard of living, including adequate food and housing." In April, in response to the Covid-19 pandemic, President Uhuru Kenyatta announced plans for a cash transfer program that would enable older people and other vulnerable members of society to buy food. The forest evictees have so far not benefitted from the cash transfer program, Human Rights Watch found. He said that  Kenyan authorities should urgently provide needed food, assistance, and financial support to thousands of people displaced in the Mau Forest evictions. "The government should also investigate all abuses during forced evictions from Maasai Mau and hold those responsible held to account," he said. “Kenya’s government should move swiftly to prevent further starvation-related deaths in the Mau camps,” Namwaya said. “Leaders cannot just close their eyes to what is happening with the Mau evictees, especially at this time when we should be cushioning the vulnerable against the effects of Covid-19.”