The world-famous Masai Mara Game Reserve has reopened after closure for three months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Just in time for the annual wildebeest migration from Tanzania, one of the wonders of the natural world. Seven camps and hotels are operational. All visitors will be tested, including international visitors arriving after airspace reopens to foreign flights on August 1. All visitors will be screened at the entrance to the park and at camps or hotels. The seven open facilities already have met all Covid-19 containment measures, including staff testing and fumigation of premises. Governor Samuel Tunai said on Saturday the reopening follows the directive by President Uhuru Kenyatta to reopen airspace for international travellers. He made the remarks after chairing the County Emergency Response Committee meeting at county headquarters. “The Masai Mara game reserve is the pillar of our economy and the county has put strict measures in place to reopen it and prevent the spread of Covid-19. “The Kenya Medical Research Institution will give us,” he said. “More than 316 employees working in the park have tested negative for Covid-19. They are ready to work towards normalising the tourist attraction,” Tunai said. Officials from the Public Health department will continue regular inspections to insure high hygiene standards are met. “This is the season when the annual wildebeest migration from the Serengeti National Park in Tanzania to the Masai Mara Game Reserve is happening. We expect to receive foreign and local visitors,” the governor said. Tunai also announced the reopening of a Chinese company that is constructing the Narok sewerage system, which was closed when 22 Chinese workers tested positive for Covid-19. He said 38 people have tested positive for the virus in the county; 29 have recovered and three have died. Others are in treatment. The 22 Chinese workers have recovered. Tunai said the county is putting up 300 Covid-19 isolation beds in the Ololulunga Subcounty Hospital. “We expect one block to be launched this week. Also, we have 40 beds for Covid-19 patients at the Narok County Referral Hospital,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)