A family in Kiambaa village Kabete sub-county, has called upon the government to come to its aid after incurring a heavy hospital bill after their six months baby was diagnosed with acute pneumonia. According to Francis Kago, a tailor, while speaking to the Star said that the hospital bill at Kenyatta National Hospital has skyrocketed to Sh.700,000 and is still rising since his son Peter Ndung'u is still under treatment in the hospital. “My son son was admitted at Kenyatta hospital in May and has been in the intensive care unit where he was moved to acute room and is still under treatment and needs a surgery to correct his gullet as he was feeding through the pipe which made his gullet not to function well after the pipe was removed,” Kago stated. Kago said that he was drained financially as in 2017 when his wife was blessed with a baby girl who was diagnosed with meningitis when she was three months and the girl died a year later and they had been in and out of hospitals. “We had a first born who died due to meningitis and it was a stressful journey as my wife who used to own a salon, had to give up the job so that she could be full time with our daughter. The medication she was receiving was expensive and this drained us financially,” Kago said. Kago said that his National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) was also drained and he had stopped working at his tailoring shop and could not remit towards the fund. “I only activated my NHIF account the other day after a well wisher gave me money to activate it. I have to wait 180 days for it to mature,”Kago said. Jane Karura, mother to Kago who is elderly, said that it has not been a smooth journey for his son since they lost the first child when young and now their son is in hospital. “We pray to God to save the life of our grandson and for the family to get stability. We do not have any money to give to our son for the hospital bill and we only hope that well wishers can hear our plight and help us,"  Karura said. She said that since they do not have a land or big house to accommodate their son, his son has moved out of a one bedroom rental house to a single rented room since he is unable to pay rent. “My son has a diploma in tailoring and now he cannot work since most of the time he is in and out of hospital checking on his family. The bus fare from home to hospital is Sh.300 and every day his wife uses around Sh.1,000 to stay with their son in hospital and there is the cost of medicine. "This is too much financial burden for someone who is not working for money,” she said. Peter Ndungu, father to Kago said that he had reared chicken and goats and has since been selling them so that he can help his son pay some part of the hospital bill. Ndungu said that they incurred a bill at Tigoni Hospital. During the time, his son lost his daughter and a friend gave them a title deed to stand in as security so that they may be given the body for burial. The bill is yet to be paid. “My son and his wife were blessed with a daughter in 2017 who got sick immediately and died in 2018 and in 2019 they were blessed with a baby boy who is now in hospital. It is agonizing since we cannot do anything financially to help," Ndungu said. The family is now appealing to well wishers by establishing a Safaricom paybill number 8015411 with account number being Ndungu Kago Medical Fund and more so to the government to come to their aid.