The government has launched a 90-day crackdown on polluters of Michuki Memorial Park. Environment Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko said on Monday the government will mercilessly descend on those discharging untreated and toxic waste into the river. The crackdown, which will be led by the National Environmental Management Authority, will be sustained and aggressive, and no one will be spared, he added. "I am warning polluters who release untreated and toxic waste into our rivers be it residential, factories or plants that their days are numbered and they will be dealt with ruthlessly. There will be no sacred cows,” Tobiko said. The CS spoke when he flagged off cleanup activities at the park and enforcement action along the Nairobi River Basin. The CS decried the deplorable state of the river between Ondiri Swamp and Athi River. He said although the stretch between Museums Hills and Globe Cinema roundabout is clean, a lot needs to be done to clean the river upstream and downstream. The crackdown reinforces the ongoing infrastructural rehabilitation, biodiversity assessment and stabilisation of the river bank starting off at the National Museums bridge along the Michuki Memorial Park. The rehabilitation is in readiness for its opening to the public as a recreational park and an educational centre. Nairobians will soon be able to enjoy recreational facilities at the park with restoration and rehabilitation works almost complete. The 26-acre park was handed over to the Kenya Forest Service in April as one of the several green spaces in Nairobi that will be under the national government. The Ministry of Environment in conjunction with the KFS, Nema, the Kenya Forestry Research Institute, the National Museums of Kenya and the Nairobi Metropolitan Service have been undertaking the rehabilitation works. The aim is to restore the park's ecological health and integrity. With funds from the Treasury, the KFS has erected a perimeter fence, laid 2.4km of walkways, planted 4,200 seedlings, constructed new toilets and laid out a large nursery of indigenous trees. The agency has also stabilised the river banks. Plans are afoot for a café and amphitheatre in the park and a praying area. Nairobi’s sewer system in shambles Noting that Nairobi’s sewer system and infrastructure is in shambles, CS Tobiko said the lack of proper sanitation facilities in informal settlements has made people turn into river pollutants. The Ministry of Environment is working with the NMS and the Ministry of Water to ensure the sewer plants in Nairobi are upgraded and river pollutants are dealt with. “This is an integrated, multi-agency approach where the ministries and other authorities have come together with one aim,” he said. Tobiko applauded NMS director general Mohammed Badi on his effort to bring  change in the informal settlements in Nairobi. “The Major General is already doing a beautiful job in the informal settlements and it will go a long way,” he said. Edited by A.N  