Pastor Victor Kanyari has told his ex-wife Betty Bayo to move on. Betty has put up numerous posts on social media in which she writes about Kanyari, who is the father of her children. Speaking to Word Is, Kanyari said, "I don't know why Betty keeps on speaking about my relationship with her, yet she had other relationship(s) before me." Betty announced last year that she had moved on and was planning to wed. In a recent post, she spoke about her past mistakes, including moving in with Kanyari three weeks after they met. She said it is one thing she still regrets. "She should not be worried that I may appear and fight for love. I am a good man and I don't fight for love," Kanyari said. The pastor said he will never fight for a relationship. "I have never been with a person I loved that much to make me fight for her to love me. When we separated, it's a decision we made so I cannot go back to her," he said. In another post, Betty said she regretted being in an abusive relationship. Asked whether he is a wife batterer, Kanyari said, "I never hit her when we were together. The fact remains we separated. "I never touched her. One day I came home angry and hit a picture on the wall but I never fought her. She can even testify to that." Kanyari is yet to get back into the dating scene. "This is a journey and the spirit of getting married has not entered me but when it does, I will think about it. I am still single and ready to mingle," he said. He plans to have more children when he eventually remarries. "Like six of them. I will give birth till when God will say enough." Kanyari's advice on love is that it's not that serious. "Ukiachwa achika. Otherwise, depression is there. If she was not your destiny, then let her go and stop begging for their love. If she stays, it's okay," he said. Kanyari advises men to take care of their children after separation. "I respect separation but don't neglect children. Take care of them and support them and give the woman a chance to get someone else to love her. She might get a 'Jesus' or a saint." He says he has no regrets. "I don't regret it, just that I love my children so much but I can't regret that we separated. Let her look for a Mzungu, when they die she will come looking for you." Kanyari said he will officially announce to his congregation when he will reopen his church.