Frankie Kiarie, popularly known as Frankie Just Gym It, says he didn't leave his baby mama Maureen Waititu for Corazon Kwamboka. Speaking on his YouTube channel on Sunday, he said, "I didn't leave Maureen for Kwamboka, Maureen and I broke up, then I met Kwamboka. It wasn't planned that I was gonna let this beautiful thing we had and go start another beautiful thing that now we have going on." He and Waititu are blessed with two sons, while he is expecting a child with Kwamboka. Responding to whether he is a responsible father, Frankie said he sends money for his children's upkeep. "I send Sh6,000 and personally, I spend like Sh2,500. I pay Sh150,000 for my son’s school fees per semester at Montessori. My mum helps me with a percentage of that," he said. "My children have always had two nannies until recently, and I was paying both of them. My baby mama and I had an agreement on how we are going to be splitting nannies' salary; I pay a specific amount and then she tops up, and that’s what we’ve been doing for the past year." He went on to rubbish claims he is deadbeat. "Yesterday (Saturday), I actually paid for online classes on Zoom. I want to ask you guys to really think hard about what a deadbeat dad means because I take care of my kids at all times," he said. He also said he and Maureen were engaged and not married. He explained how they tried seeking the help of their pastor to salvage their marriage but it didn’t work. "When we were together in 2016, we were living in Ruaka and had a really good house, where we stayed for four years," he said. "During our son’s (firstborn) first birthday, I proposed to Maureen and it got to a point the landlady decided to increase the rent and used to complain to my mum about that." He says his children stay at a house he was given in Westlands. "Personally I’m not a malicious person. Right now my goal is to create a conducive environment for my children to grow up in. The house is close to school and it makes it easier for me to visit them," he said. Frankie got emotional and shed tears while speaking about his first hangout with the kids after he and Maureen parted ways. In a previous interview, Maureen said, "I am a single parent but their father tries to help."