Sugar factories, airstrips and a medical college are some of the projects the government will revive in western Kenya. They are among the fruits of lobbying by leaders from the region, former Bumula MP Bonface Otsiula has said. Otsiula praised President Uhuru Kenyatta's plans to complete the stalled projects in the region. Two weeks ago, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa and Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya led his counterparts and several MPs to a meeting chaired by Interior CS Fred Matiang'i at Harambee House, Nairobi. They sought a commitment to the revival of all stalled projects in western and Trans Nzoia, especially in the sugar industry. Already, the government has waived all the Sh62 billion debts owed by all the sugar millers from the region. The meeting also championed the upgrading of both Busia and Webuye airstrips and completion of the Bumula Kenya Medical Training College. “We are happy that the CS for Agriculture Peter Munya and his Treasury counterpart Ukur Yatani have given guidelines on the restructuring process towards cancellation of the debts,” Otsiula said. Otsiula told the Star in Bungoma that the move will revive the region's dwindling economy where sugar cane farming was the mainstay. "The pangas used to harvest cane have become tools for robbery and murder since the collapse in the sugar industry,” he said. The projects will help to address youth unemployment, alcoholism, insecurity and early marriages that have become a big challenge in the region. Otsiula urged residents and local leaders to support plans by Oparanya and Eugene mobilise resources for the stalled projects. He said the two have the region's blessings. “It is not a battle for anointing the region's presidential flag-bearer, but development to the common mwananchi. Political supremacy being witnessed is therefore unnecessary,” he said. The former lawmaker said the Mulembe nation must support the President's agenda and legacy by embracing the BBI and handshake.  (edited by o. owino)