A Kisumu police officer who shot her husband, grazing his head on Sunday night within the city, has been charged before a Kisumu law court. Maureen Awuor, 35, allegedly shot her husband with an AK47 because he didn't answer her calls. Awuor was charged with attempted murder before Winam senior resident magistrate Fatuma Rashid on Tuesday. The administration police officer who is attached to the Critical Infrastructure Protection Unit (CIPU) headquarters in Kisumu East was accused of committing the crime on July 5 at Dago area within Kisumu. Her husband Victor Odhiambo Onunga, 28, is a clinical officer at Milimani Hospital in Kisumu. She pleaded not guilty and was released on Sh2 million bond or Sh500,000 bail. According to police report, Awuor returned to their rental house from her sentry duty post at the DCC’s office at Kasagam and found Odhiambo watching television. The suspect is said to have quarreled with the husband after she accused him of not answering her calls and giving the house help Sh50 for lunch without asking her. “She stood at the door while armed with her official AK47 rifle. She told Odhiambo she was going to kill him and kill herself, she cocked the gun, shot at him twice and injured him on right side of the head above the ear,” the report read. The suspect allegedly threatened the neighbours who rushed to find out what was happening by firing another shot at them. Awuor then disappeared after returning the firearm to a fellow officer at the station. Odhiambo was rushed by neighbours to the Kisumu County Hospital where he was treated and discharged in fair condition. The two have been together for three years and have a one-year-old son, the police report reads. Police commander Ranson Lolmodoni on Monday confirmed the arrest of the suspect. The scene was visited by Kasagam OCS, Kisumu East DCI boss Thomas Simbiri, and processed by crime officers. The firearm is being kept as an exhibit while the DCI investigates. The case will me mentioned on July 21 ahead of hearing on September 9.  Edited by R.Wamochie