 The Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions and the Independent Policing Oversight Authority are opposed to the formation of another commission of inquiry to investigate police brutality. Such commission, they say, would be duplicative and wasteful, deputy DPP Dorcas Oduor and Ipoa boss Anne Makori said on Tuesday. They were responding on webnair (live, web-based video conference) to calls by civil society operatives for such commission. Webnair conveners International Commission of Jurists Kenyan section chair Kelvin Mogeni and Amnesty International board chair Rene Ngamau said there was a need to investigate the operation of the police and recommend their transformation “into a service rather than a force, remove relics of colonial mindset in operation and foster social acceptance of their work.” “The commission of inquiry should have a broad mandate and involve Ipoa, ODPP, IAU and stakeholders from the public and civil society to have an indepth analysis of how to modernise the concept of policing in the country,” Mogeni said. The indepth conversation by the commission should crystalise into decisional and operational independence of the police, with a new attitude that does not see policing in a confrontational light but rather involve the society in solving the teething problems, he said. The conduct of the inquiry should also result in a total overhaul of the policing ideology and better accountability frameworks put in place to check police excesses, he added. Ngamau and Oduor were concerned that officers had found new ways of evading accountability. They, for instance, avoid conversing officially with colleagues on private mobile phones instead of radio calls that preserve records as evidence. "Officers are not using official communication channels such as radio calls but mobile phones, hence communications are not recorded for accountability," Mogeni said. But Oduor, who represented DPP Noordin Haji, said that while the ODPP does not condone police brutality, wholesome condemnation of the police would not be helpful. She said that rather than forming a new commission of inquiry, it was time to interrogate how the recommendations by previous bodies that probed the conduct of the police were implemented and fix the lapses. "There has been a police reform commission that gave recommendations. How have the recommendations been implemented? Instead of forming another commission of inquiry, we should audit what has happened so far and why there was no efficiency," Oduor said. Makori said Ipoa was competent to hold officers individually responsible for their actions, even when their conduct was a result of orders from their superiors. "I don't think there is a need for another body to oversight the police. Emerging from 2008, Kenyans indicated they wanted a civilian oversight over the police and that's how Ipoa came to be and it has been executing its mandate," she said.  - mwaniki fm