American singer August Alsina has claimed he had a love affair with celebrated actress and host Jada Pinkett Smith and said that her husband Will Smith gave his blessing. During an interview with Breakfast Club's Angela Yee, August said that he was in love with Jada. "I sat down with Will Smith and had a conversation due to the transformation from their marriage to life partnership… he gave me his blessing," August said. However, a spokesperson for Jada denied the claims to Page Six, stating that the claims are 'absolutely not true'. It is reported that Jada's son Jaden is the one who introduced her to August in 2015. The singer added that the two became very close and went on holidays together with the family in Hawaii a year later and they even attended the 2017 BET Awards together. "I totally gave myself to that relationship for years of my life and I truly and really really deeply love and have a ton of love for her. I devoted myself to it, I gave my full self to it, so much so to the point that I can die right now and be okay with knowing that I truly gave myself to somebody," August confessed. He added; " I really loved a person, I experienced that and I know what that feels like and some people never get that in this lifetime. I know that I am completely blessed and this conversation is difficult because it is so much, that it would be hard for people to understand but, once it starts to affect me and my livelihood, I have to speak up about my truth," he added. However, August claimed that he is not speaking out to cause any trouble. "Contrary to what people may believe, I am not a troublemaker. I don’t like drama. Drama actually makes me nauseous. " He added that he doesn't think that it is important for people to know what he does whether its who he sleeps with or who he dates. "But in this instance it is very different because as I said, there are so many people that are side-eyeing me, looking at me questionable. I have lost money, friendships, relationships behind it and I think it is because people don’t necessarily know the truth. But I have never done anything wrong," he said. August also made it clear that he loves the Smith's family literally like his family. "I don’t have a bad thing to say about them. They are beautiful people." Previously Jada had denied rumours that she and her husband Will are in an open relationship and said they will never divorce. In 2017, August revealed that he suffers from a severe autoimmune disease that attacks his liver.