The University of Nairobi has lost two of its staff to Covid-19. Vice-Chancellor Prof Stephen Kiama revealed this on Friday when he addressed staff and students in a briefing that was also streamed live on the institution’s website. “These are not mere statistics. These are our brothers, sisters, parents and friends. University of Nairobi has also not been spared by this enemy, the Covid-19,” he said. Kiama said the two members died in the last three weeks. Kiama said experts have indicated that the numbers will continue to rise and any meaningful reprieve will only occur somewhere in November this year. “My dear students and staff, the ravage of Covid-19 is real. The coronavirus continues to spread,” he said. Kenya on Friday reported 473 new Covid-19 cases, bringing to 9,448, the total number of infections. The new cases emerged from 6,979 samples that were tested in the previous 24 hours, according to Health CS Mutahi Kagwe. A total of 206,584 samples have been tested as of Friday. Prof Kiama said a lot has been put in place by the institution of learning to continue uninterrupted. He said the students have been provided with e-learning materials such as bundles. “This intervention brought life back to the university, as faculty and students began to engage. As we were gaining momentum, the challenge of cost of data emerged and threatened to roll back our gains,” he said, adding that no student who was scheduled to graduate this year should fail to do so because of Covid-19. He said learning was made possible due to the indomitable spirit of staff and students. “I applaud and salute you all for your gallant efforts. When our history will be written, I have no doubt that a paragraph or perhaps a chapter will be reserved for the resilience you have exhibited in the Covid-19 time,” he said. On Tuesday, the Ministry of Education issued a directive on the reopening of learning institutions in the country. Kiama said in line with the government directives, he has instructed the Deans and Directors working closely with the respective Principals to prepare to open in a phased manner. As regards admission of new students, the VC said he will be communicating shortly on when the institution shall receive the class of 2020-21. “Admissions of new students is also continuous using our rolling admission system online please visit http://applications.uonbi.ac.ke and apply,” he said. Kiama said that the senate recently approved what is internationally referred to as Dual/Joint degrees in order to enhance the quality of their collaboration and boost Internalization of faculty. “Our students will now have the opportunity to pursue Dual Degree Programmes, or simply put; students can now pursue a programme designed & delivered by two or more partner institutions after fulfilling the requirements of all the universities provided in the applicable agreement,” he said.