  Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed's candidature for the top World Trade Organisation job has been endorsed by business lobby groups of the 12 Great Lakes Region member states. Amina’s candidature presents an opportunity to drive the reform agenda on international trade at the global organisation, the Great Lakes Region Private Sector Forum and the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region said in a resolution on Monday. The GLR-PSF described the CS as a committed international civil servant with a distinguished career in both public and foreign service. The resolution was signed by chairman Richard Ngatia. “As the first woman to chair the General Council at the WTO, Amina has gained a sharp appreciation of the inherent power of trade and private sector to drive economic growth, create employment opportunities and stamp out poverty," the resolution said. Kenya nominated Amina for WTO director-general on July 7 to succeed Roberto Azevêdo who will be stepping down on August 31. Other contestants are former UK Trade Secretary Liam Fox, ex-Nigerian Finance minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, Egyptian commercial law academic Abdel-Hamid Mamdouh, and Jesús Seade Kuri of Mexico. The GLR-PSF said: “Although making an endorsement in a campaign for the position is a first for the GLR-PSF, the Executive Council and its membership is pleased to announce its support for Mohamed. She is a strong advocate of sensible and effective measures to combat poverty and advance the global agenda." In 2011, Amina served as United Nations Assistant Secretary-General and Deputy Executive Director of the United Nations Environment Programme. She has served in strategic government positions and been elected to key international positions. Her work experience in over 28 years covers a broad spectrum of domestic and international assignments. She rose through the ranks in Kenya’s diplomatic service to the highest level of Ambassador/Permanent Representative Kenya Mission to the UN Geneva office between 2000 and 2006. The lobby groups reiterated that the WTO needs a director general who can broker solutions, one who looks ahead to build a new era of prosperity for the organisation. “She is an excellent strategist and visionary, anticipating the management needs of every organisation she has been involved with. She is fluent in English, Russian, Swahili and has a working knowledge of French,” Ngatia said. Ngatia is the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry president. He was elected the first substantive GLR-PSF chairman last year. The GLR member states are Angola, Democratic Republic of Congo, Burundi, Central African Republic, Kenya, Republic of the Congo, Sudan, Rwanda, South Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia.  - mwaniki fm