Cabin crew will wear gloves, protective gowns and a disposable apron in the new guidelines developed by the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority to curb the spread of the coronavirus. Kenya police and Kenya Airport Authority will limit access to the terminal to passengers, crew members and airport staff. "Airport terminal access shall be restricted to workers, travellers and accompanying persons in situations such as for passengers with disabilities, reduced mobility or unaccompanied minors in an initial phase,” the guidelines said. The guidelines titled the Protocol for air travel operations during Covid-19 public health crisis will ensure digital payment and prohibit relatives and friends from accompanying travellers. Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia said the guidelines are meant to contain the spread of the virus and ensure that the sector is opened up. Travellers and aircraft crew will maintain the 1.5 meter rule and wear surgical masks inside the aircraft and airports. “Once dampened by secretions or contaminated by other contaminants, the facial masks must be replaced immediately with new ones, and hands should be cleaned with sanitizer both before and after the replacement,” the guidelines added. Aircraft carrying up to 100 passengers will have the last three rows on the right-hand side of the economy cabin blocked empty for the purpose of isolation of any passenger exhibiting Covid-19 symptoms. Kenya Airport Authority will  provide signage, floor markings and announcements to minimize physical interactions. Any passenger with an elevated body temperature shall be referred for secondary assessment by Port Health services present at the airport for Covid-19 testing and will not be allowed to travel. Passengers will check-in online and provide detailed contact information for contact tracing before they are allocated a seat and provided with their boarding pass. Passengers found with prohibited items, such as Liquids, Gels or Aerosols greater than the recommended quantities will return outside of security to dispose them before resubmitting their property for X-ray screening. Before accepting any passengers on the flight, the Air Operators Medical team in conjunction with the Port Health and Air Operators Passenger Services will check the health conditions of the passengers by screening and profiling. “Instead of passengers handing their boarding pass to a Customer Service Agent or Travel Document Unit staff, they shall place their boarding pass on the boarding pass reader themselves. After scanning, travellers shall hold their boarding pass toward the Customer Service Agent or Travel Document Unit staff to allow the staff to visually inspect it,” the guidelines said. There will be reduced food and drink services. Travellers will  remain with their seatbelt on. The crew will ensure a passenger has additional masks to replace it after coughing or sneezing. Operators will avoid long stopovers and layovers to reduce the risk of contamination posed by the need for the crew members to exit the airport’s restricted area and reduce unnecessary contact with the local population. “If a face mask cannot be tolerated, the sick person should cover their mouth and nose with tissues when coughing or sneezing,” the guidelines said. In the event any passenger is having difficulty breathing, medical assistance should be sought, and oxygen supplementation offered. KAA will ensure provision of Thermal Scanners and Thermal Guns at appropriate points at the airports for temperature screening. Passengers shall have access to information through adequate signage as a reminder to adhere to the applicable preventive measures. Ground personnel will not be allowed to embark the aircraft except for remediation of technical problems or other ground staff whose presence on board is essential for performing their tasks. Crew transportation shall be done with a minimum separation of one seat between crew members. The Air Operator shall ensure that crew do not share the transport with any passengers or other Air Operator crew At the resting facilities (hotel) the crew members shall not be allowed to leave the hotel facility or rooms except for emergency reasons. “The air operators shall be responsible for any form of non-compliance by its crew. Any incidence will therefore affect the overall compliance rating for the airline,” the guidelines said. Arriving passengers to leave the terminal immediately they collect their baggage. All passengers are exempted from quarantine on arrival if their body temperature is not above 37.5° C, and they do not have a persistent cough, difficulty in breathing or other flu-like symptoms. “With a reported case of Covid-19 on the flight or if the above symptoms are detected, the passengers within 2 rows of the passenger with the symptoms shall be quarantined for testing. If the results are negative, they shall be allowed to leave the facility,” the new rules said. “In the event, the passenger is having difficulty breathing, medical assistance should be sought, and oxygen supplementation offered.” KAA will create more lanes, which will use handheld metal detectors, Walk-Through Metal Detectors, full-body scanner and upgrade security cameras and CCTVs to be able to use biometrics even when people are wearing face masks to ease congestion. They will also install extra security-screening machines. Passengers will remove items such as belts, wallets, keys and phones, and put them in their carry-on bags to reduce touch points during the screening process.