As you run to the safety of your home from Covid-19, health workers run towards it to save lives -and  in the process get exposed to the virus. Every day is a day of exposure to danger, leaving the house healthy in the morning for work but with the probability of getting infected. Reports indicate a number of health workers, mainly nurses and clinicians, have been infected, with some in critical condition. The death of Doreen Lugaliki, the first medical doctor responding to Covid-19 to succumb, escalated the level of alarm on the dangers the health workers face. Winfred Ogeto is a nurse at one of the high-end hospitals in the city. On June 22, she was among 10 nurses and clinicians whose test for the virus turned positive. With isolation beds fully occupied, the hospital management directed them to get isolated at their homes. Ogeto works as a comprehensive care specialist for HIV patients, giving counselling and care for outpatients as well as those booked for inpatient care. “As a nurse, you have to get in contact with the patients, taking their vitals, counselling and sometimes administering drugs intravenously,” she explained to the Star. And this, most likely, was her point of contact with the highly infectious virus, she said. “It is likely that one of my patients were asymptomatic with virus because I don’t remember contacting one with the symptoms of Covid-19, especially respiratory distress,” she added. Ogeto said, however, that for health workers, even those not directly involved in dealing with the virus, the risks of infection are heightened however much one may be careful. But how about the PPEs? Ogeto said even with the protective gear, there are other avenues through which the virus gets to them because “you cannot put on the protective materials all the time.” “You only handle a patient putting on the PPEs once they show the signs of the virus or their diagnoses have turned positive,” she explained. For her and her colleagues, she says, everyday is a danger day even if one is not directly handling the virus patients, hence the inherent fear engulfing them. "For me, for example, as I tend to HIV patients some needing intravenous injections, chances for self-pricking is high hence getting the virus. That is how easy we can get this disease," she explained. The asymptomatic nurse, who is self-isolating at her house, said the doctors recommended that she takes a concoction of hot water with ginger, honey and oranges as well as a lot of sunlight to manage her asymptomatic condition. So bad is the situation for healthcare workers that reports indicate most of the workers at a key city healthcare have tested positive with some admitted for critical care at various hospitals. The management has released some of them to self-isolate at their homes for 14 days and report progress. The rising trend of health workers infection is scary and demoralising, but it's the job, she said. For the hospital that she works for, Ogeto said it has declined receiving Covid-19 patients needing intensive care only opting to attend to those already with other pre-existing conditions. In response to their heightened risk, the nurse said, her employer has organised numerous training sessions to sensitise them on self-protection, including recommendation to reduce the time they spend with patients as much as possible to reduce chances of exposure. Edited by Henry Makori