The national government has started mapping Nairobi to specifically cushion the vulnerable populations against the socio-economic interruptions occasioned by Covid-19 pandemic. The exercise will also identify hard-hit micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) for support. The focus is on postCovid-19 recovery support, according to a memorandum of understanding signed on Wednesday by Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa, Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Richard Ngatia and global charity Health Relief International. Under the MoU, the most vulnerable will also be cushioned against the effects of floods. With more than 50 per cent of Kenya's positive cases, Nairobi is the epicentre of the Covid-19 pandemic, whose effects are most felt in the informal settlements due to high unemployment rates. Ngatia said the MoU will solidify support and maintain systems of food production, trade, logistics and markets. “We aim to jointly come up with mechanisms and recommendations on a recovery strategy for disasters and, in particular, create a restoration mechanism through safety net kits and restoration grants or soft loans with development partners,” he said. Low-income earners live in slums like Kibera, Mathare, Mukuru kwa Njenga, Kawangware, Kangemi and Korogocho. With little or no money, it is difficult for them to venture into business. However, the Devolution ministry and other state agencies, are stepping in to support, among other ventures, the procurement of medical supplies and equipment for the disadvantaged populations. The mapping will be extended to other parts of the country after Nairobi. Ngatia said the support will also cover smallholder farmers to access markets and stabilise the supply chain to ensure food security. Eugene, whose docket includes Arid and Semi-Arid Areas (ASALs), said county governments are key enablers of business, adding that the MoU will complement their efforts. During the signing of a cooperation agreement with KNCCI last week, Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya was optimistic of better relations with the business community. Under the Preferential Procurement Policy, the government has pledged to support SMEs by protecting locally manufactured goods and easing their countrywide distribution. The policy ensures that the youth, women and persons living with disability secure government tenders.  - mwaniki fm