Men are taught to be tough, not to admit they’ve been physically hurt, not to show their emotions. Never if they’ve been raped. That would be shameful, unmanly and a sign of weakness. “Men ought to be strong and hide their hurt. That is what we were taught after circumcision. Actually, a man that allows anyone to rape him or touch him inappropriately is weak,” Frank Nyakundi, 58, said. However some norms of masculinity, like not admitting physical suffering, especially sexual suffering, led to mental distress and can lead to destructive behavior, psychologists say. A report covering such pain, 'Violence Against Children Report 2019’, has been issued by the World Health Organization. “It is important to highlight that boys and men also suffer sexual violence. Rape and other forms of sexual coercion against men and boys take place in a variety of settings including homes, workplaces, schools, streets, the military and prisons,” WHO said. The Ministry of Labour now says some traditional norms that boys should not express emotion should be reexamined. The WHO report indicated that one in every 10 males experienced sexual violence before they were aged 18. The violence included unwanted sexual touching and attempted sex, pressured sex and physical forced sex - rape. The report said only a third of boys who experienced childhood sexual violence knew where place to seek help – two-thirds did not know. For those aged 18 to 24, eight per cent experienced sexual violence and a few engaged in sex for money and gifts. For 13- to-17-year-olds, about two per cent experienced sexual violence in the past year. That included unwanted attempted sexual touching, unwanted attempted sex and pressured sex. The most common perpetrators were a current or previous spouse, a boyfriend or girlfriend with the most common locations being either at the survivor’s home or someone else’s home. Despite this, three in every 10 male survivors of sexual violence did not seek any help or treatment e afterwards as they did not think it should be reported. Shame played a big role. However, psychologist Esther Njambi said some traditional norms endorsing masculinity lead to increased mental distress and cause problems. “Men who have suffered violence may end up in drug addiction, risky sexual behavior orperpetrate violence themselves,” she said. The following is a ‘mild’ case, but the young man allowed himself to be abused by his female boss, never reporting it because he was supposed to be strong: Victor (not his real name) was sexually harassed by his 35-year-old supervisor at a company in Thika where he was interning. “She bought me lunch twice and I thought of them as friendly colleague lunches. She once claimed to be unwell and asked me to deliver medicine to her house and I obliged," Victor said. When he arrived, his supervisor locked the door, touched his genitals and pressured him into having sex with her. “My boss threatened me against telling anyone saying since she was my senior, no one would believe me. I never reported her as I am male and I always need to be strong,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)  