Busia youths have received hand sanitiser from the National Youth Council to help in combating the spread of coronavirus. The items which included liquid soap and tissue paper were handed over to Governor Sospeter Ojaamong by NYC chief executive officer Roy Telewa. Telewa whose team paid a courtesy call on the Governor in his office said the items would be distributed to boda boda riders and in marketplaces. The governor thanked NYC, Kenya Pipeline Company and other youth groups including Kenya Young Members of Parliament and Kenya Young Members of the County Assembly for the donation. Separately, the Health Committee of the Covid-19 Fund Board donated personal protective equipment (PPE) to the county government. The equipment consisting of disposable gowns, surgical masks, N95 respirator masks,  gloves, head and shoe covers and gumboots will be used by healthcare workers dealing with coronavirus patients in the county. Busia Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi who received the donation from Equity Bank’s chief commercial officer Polycarp Igathe said the PPE would bolster efforts by the county government to combat Covid-19. Addressing journalists at the Busia County Referral Hospital, Mulomi said they will take the necessary measures to ensure that the equipment are effectively used to protect the frontline healthcare workers against the pandemic. “I want to appreciate that the donation of personal protective equipment is a very important step considering that the number of patients being handled by the healthcare workers is huge," Mulomi said. They will be sent to Alupe Isolation and Treatment Centre. He said Busia had registered more than 500 positive cases of Covid-19 but no deaths due to the hard work of the healthcare workers. Igathe said the equipment donated was part of the consignment purchased at a cost of Sh237 million to benefit 68 public hospitals in the country. “This consignment is being distributed in public hospitals that are of high priority in the country,” he said. He thanked the national and the county governments for their commitment to the fight against coronavirus and urged Kenyans to observe preventive measures issued by the Ministry of Health. Edited by Henry Makori