Teachers across the country have been challenged to do whatever they can to engage with their respective learners. Kenya Private Schools Association chairperson Matheu Kassanga on Tuesday said the current Covid-19 pandemic has provided room for more dialogue between teachers and learners. Kassanga said though the government has directed that schools reopen in January 2021, teachers should not leave learners idle. “The pandemic has presented unique circumstances to us but let us use this time to be more creative and innovative. Look for ways you can engage and interact with these learners in the best way possible,” she said. Kassanga said though the association supports the directive of the government with regards to reopening, many teachers have been placed in a corner as going to class is the source of their livelihoods. “We are in discussions with the government and all stakeholders on the plight of our teachers in the private sector and I am sure we shall find an amicable solution to the challenge ahead of us,” Kassanga said. Her sentiments were echoed by the Kenya National Association of Parents chairperson Nicholas Maiyo who said they had agreed that the health and safety of learners was key. Maiyo said with a membership of over 10 million parents, the association had put into consideration the current surging numbers and agreed that reopening of schools should depend on flattening of the curve. “If you look at the academic calendar not much had been covered thus it is i order that we resume classes in new year,” he said. Maiyo said parents should not be worried about school fees as the matter will be comprehensively handled when learning resumes. Kenya National Union of Teachers secretary general Wilson Sossion said the government had shown leadership on the matter by not hurrying to reopen the institutions. Sossion who doubles as a nominated MP said the union had been actively involved in the matter and fully supports the directive. “This is not a political or an academic matter, it is all about a medical matter and for once I  am happy that as a country we have listened to our doctors,” Sossion said. Sossion has been against reopening of schools, saying they would become breeding grounds for more infections. "As a union we are saying flattening of the curve to determine reopening and principal of equity should apply to all learners. This decision has been made in the best interest of learners and teachers,” he said. His Kuppet counterpart Akello Missori said currently it is very difficult to observe social distancing in schools as per the pandemic protocols. Missori said most of the schools are overcrowded and controlling learners especially in primary schools would be impossible. Teacher Service Commission CEO Nancy Macharia said since the protocols require that those who are 58 years and above stay home as they risk infection, it would cripple the education sector more than it is. “We have several teachers who are above 58 years with underlying health issues. Compounded with the existing teacher shortage, it would be unfair to learners if we reopened schools under the current situation,” she said. Macharia said they will rely on the advisory of the Ministry of Health on when to resume learning.