A prime piece of land in Kahawa Sukari, Ruiru subcounty, is at the centre of a protracted dispute between residents and a private developer. Kahawa Sukari Welfare Association (KSWA) claims that the land, situated just 200 metres from the Thika superhighway, is public property while the private developer, Uptown Agencies Limited, lays claim to the prime parcel. The land has been a matatu terminus for over two decades while small-scale traders have been operating from there. Also the welfare's offices are situated on the land. On Sunday, traders, matatu and boda boda operators were ejected from the land by the police and the private developer fenced the land and started excavation works. Police had to lob tear gas at the adamant operators. On Tuesday, the residents led by KSWA chairperson Mary Wangari joined officers from the Kiambu county government in demolishing the fence. The residents accused the private developer of hatching a plan to grab the parcel and using police to evict them from the public property. They vowed to remain unmoved and to protect the piece of land from being grabbed. “This piece of land has been a matatu terminus. Police also used to reside on this land before they moved to the new police station at Felma centre. Also our [welfare] offices have been on this land for years and have now been rendered inaccessible. We won’t allow the land to be illegally taken and developed,” Wangari said. Peter Kung’u, a matatu operator, said that he has been in the matatu business in the area since 1998 and the land has been public property. “No one has ever laid claim to this land until now. We stand to suffer a lot should the private developer manage to develop it,” he said. The residents called for the intervention of the national government through the National Land Commission and the Kiambu county government to ensure that the land is not grabbed. Kahawa Sukari ward administrator Samuel Muthoga said that county officers brought down the fence since the private developer hadn’t acquired requisite approvals from the county government to develop the land. “The county government is unaware of the kind of development that’s being undertaken. There haven’t been any approvals for development of this land,” Muthoga said. Alice Wacheke Muiruri of Uptown Agencies Limited and a Kahawa Sukari resident said they are the legitimate owners of the land and in possession of all documents to prove ownership. Wacheke said that the land was owned by his father Muiruri Laban, who passed on in 2002, and that they have been paying the required land rates to the county government of Kiambu. “We have all documents proving that we are the genuine owners of this land. My father set this land aside as a parking space for his building next to it. County government officers have demolished the fence we put up because we haven’t paid land rates amounting to Sh50,000 and lack of the approvals,” she said. Edited by Henry Makori