Arsenal’s Bukayo Saka said he has had a “week I will remember my whole life” after he celebrated signing a new long-term contract by scoring the opener in the Gunners’ victory at Wolves on Saturday. The teenager struck his first Premier League goal with a sweet, left-foot volley to deliver a blow to the hosts’ hopes of Champions League football next season. Arsenal made sure of a fourth successive victory when Alexandre Lacazette capped a fine team display by turning on fellow substitute Joe Willock’s pass and firing emphatically past Wolves keeper Rui Patricio with five minutes left. “It has been such a great week, signing my contract and then getting my first Premier League goal,” England Under-19 international Saka told BBC Sport. “And it wasn’t a bad goal either so I’m very happy. I have to stay humble and keep my feet on the ground to keep learning. It’s important for us to have experience and world-class players around to advise us. It was tough for us today but we gave our all and that is what got us over the line.” Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta described Saka as “talented and intelligent” after the player committed his future to the club on Wednesday, and was impressed once again at Molineux. “The finish was really difficult,” Arteta told BBC Sport. “It was a turning point in the game.” Wolves had been hoping to build on an impressive restart to the season but knew the pressure was on to win after fellow top-four contenders Leicester City and Manchester United had recorded victories earlier in the day. Nuno Espirito Santo’s side were not at their best. Adama Traore had their clearest chance after the break when he raced in on Arsenal keeper Emiliano Martinez from Diogo Jota’s pass, but the Spanish forwrd lifted his finish over the top in wasteful fashion. Wolves are still sixth in the Premier League table on 52 points, but seventh-placed Arsenal are now only three points behind. Spirits have soared at Arsenal since they made a desperate restart to the Premier League season with defeat at Manchester City and then that acrimonious late loss at Brighton, a match that also cost them goalkeeper Bernd Leno. They have since recorded league wins over Southampton and Norwich City, as well as progressing to the FA Cup semi-finals with victory at Sheffield United — but this win at Wolves was the most impressive demonstration yet of Arteta’s growing influence. And it came at the end of a pleasing week for the club with exciting teenagers Saka and Gabriel Martinelli both signing long-term contracts. Saka showed his quality with that left-foot volley, taken with athleticism, composure and guided cleverly out of Rui Patricio’s reach - but it came amid a fine all-round team performance. Arsenal arrived at Molineux with Wolves storming into contention for the top four after three straight wins - over West Ham United, Bournemouth and Aston Villa — since the season’s resumption. Indeed, such was their form, Saka’s goal was the first they had conceded in 448 minutes. However, Arsenal were resolute, determined and willing to trade in the physical exchanges, and they produced the decisive moments of quality to win the game. It continued the renaissance under Arteta, and while it is wise to keep all optimism in perspective given previous false dawns, this recent run leaves them only six points behind fifth-placed Manchester United, with that position potentially bringing Champions League football if Manchester City’s European ban is upheld. Wolves carried real momentum into this meeting with Arsenal after their flawless restart - but they fell flat on Saturday and could have no complaints about the outcome. Nuno’s side remain in a superb position with a real chance of Champions League football next season, a tribute in itself to the outstanding work of the Portuguese manager and his players. However, they struggled to exert any serious pressure on the Gunners and dangerman Traore was relatively well contained, although he was always a threat and should have equalised with Wolves’ best chance. It was a disappointed group of players who trooped off at the end to the silence that is now the accompaniment to these behind-closed-doors games, but their previous record suggests they still have the determination and talent, as well as the manager, to bounce back. Wolves will need to do it quickly, though, with time running out in this restarted season and their rivals picking up wins.