Darling, Africa’s leading hair extensions manufacturer will be donating 100,000 re-usable masks and 20,000 litres of disinfectants to aid in the fight against Covid-19. Under the “#SalonTukoSet” program, Darling Kenya will also be donating 10,000 litres of liquid hand wash and 3,000 face shields for the well-being of the stylists, all contained in a salon hygiene kit. This is aimed at supporting the over 50,000 salon business in Kenya. These are some of the businesses which have been faced by a slowdown or closure due to fears of transmission of the virus. Salon professionals work in close proximity with their clients thereby fuelling the fears during the initial stages of the pandemic. The “#SalonTukoSet” program will have three pillars - free distribution of hygiene kits and sanitizers; education on safety and hygiene for salon infrastructure and services; and back-to-business support. Godrej Kenya CEO Rohit Vengurlekar said the company will provide salon owners with the necessary guidance, resources and updates to ensure safety and well-being of their staff and customers, as per the government protocols. “With the partial reopening of the economy, we at Darling are committed at empowering and uplifting the salon industry by ensuring they are business-ready with necessary protocols in place," he said. "We want to ensure that salons experience a smooth transition into the next phase of their business with a greater emphasis on hygiene, which is going to be the new normal, and make this migration easier for them." FUMIGATION In addition, Darling Kenya has also partnered with Rentokil Kenya to undertake weekly disinfection of top hair markets across Kenya synonymous with hair braiders including Kenyatta, Umoja, Kariobangi, Kahawa West and Ngara Markets. Vengurlekar said that to further empower the salons, they have developed appointment scheduling tools that allow stylists to adhere to the new way of doing business post COVID-19. "This will ensure they observe the safety and health measures around the salon including the clientele while safeguarding their source of income,” Vengurlekar said. The guidelines issued are largely anchored on the Ministry of Health and World Health Organisation directives and are meant to allow businesses to reopen, while strictly observing social distancing and other containment measures of the disease. Due to the salon professionals in close proximity with their clients, Covid-19 has heavily impacted the salon industry with it leading to a complete halt of operations in some cases. IIn March 2020, the Kenyan government through the National Treasury announced that it would spend Sh53.7 billion on a stimulus package to support businesses that have been affected by Covid-19.