Religious leaders and their followers have been urged to protect themselves and their loved ones against Covid-19. Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia on Thursday said with the reopening of churches, worshippers and the clergy must take responsibility for reducing infection rates. Kimemia spoke after meeting the National Inter-faith Council chair Archbishop Anthony Muheria in his Ol Kalou office. Muheria also met Nyandarua religious leaders to discuss the guidelines of the phased reopening of places of worship. “Covid-19 continues to spread rapidly. The number of those infected, those in critical care and the dead continues to escalate. Let us protect ourselves and protect one another,” Muheria said. The cleric said the guidelines will be implemented in five phases, each with set conditions, most important being the safety of others. He urged everyone to follow the regulations and adhere to other protocols including wearing masks, social distancing and washing hands as a show of love for one another. Muheria called upon religious leaders to ensure that at the worst case scenario, at least 80 per cent of the guidelines are observed. “We are called to sacrifice a little for our love for others especially the vulnerable,” he said. Governor Kimemia said his administration and law enforcement agencies will not interfere with churches. They will only assist when called upon. He said the county, subcounty, ward and village inter-faith committees should take responsibility. “We don’t want to see the chiefs going to enforce the guidelines unless the inter-faith committee has called for assistance,” he said. Kimemia advised faithful to leave the places of worship immediately the one-hour service is over and avoid food and water at churches. The governor appealed to politicians not to take politics to the places of worship and funerals as this may aggravate the situation. He said politicians who want to donate masks, sanitiser and other items to worshippers should channel them through the clergy. “Let us lead by example. By practising what we are preaching,” he said (edited by o. owino)