Following the torching of Amani National Congress offices in Kakamega, the party's local leadership and supporters have been pointing fingers at each other. In one WhatsApp group, one diehard supporter of ANC boss Musalia Mudavadi (pictured) named a prominent person as being a key suspect, a matter that was not taken lightly by the accused. Surprisingly, the accused person publicly vowed to mercilessly kill his accuser. Corridors has reliably learnt that detectives from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations are planning to question the man adversely mentioned to establish his purported link to the criminal activity. *** Just why are some government officials hell-bent on playing politics despite President Uhuru Kenyatta’s warnings? Well, an official heading a government agency is said to be at the centre of politics in a Jubilee governor-headed county. Insiders say the officer is behind trouble in the county, especially in the county assembly. The official, according to insiders, has split the house down the middle with those not dancing to his tune facing the music. Recently, the official is said to have mobilised security officers who roughed up some MCAs. *** Just how gluttonous can some public officials be? Well, a chief executive officer and the chairman of a Coast-based parastatal are on spot for chewing up allowances meant for junior staff members. Corridors overheard the staff members of the entity complaining that they have been pushing in vain for the payments amounting to thousands of shillings. Some of them were for works executed at very odd hours to avert disruption of services. The lot argues that there’s nothing junior officers can do since the concerned officers have 'sorted' anyone they could run to for redress, including investigative agencies. *** Who exactly ordered the stoppage of a tender for the construction of a mega National Government project in Upper Eastern? It is alleged that the signing of the contract for the tender was stopped at the last minute following calls from Nairobi. The company had received the notification of the tender award but on the day of the signing, the scheduled inking aborted at the last minute. There are now concerns that some senior officials in Nairobi could have an interest in having the tender go to a company friendly to them. Officials of the parastatal responsible do not know what to do next with the process having been halted. 