Each time the incumbent is finalising his term, we have what I may call high-voltage politics. This is always informed by the scramble among potential candidates for endorsement by the incumbent. They strive to find favour with the incumbent to stay in the limelight . Succession politics always pits one presidential candidate against others, one political party against others. What we are seeing today is a new dimension of democracy, Kenyan-style, which is very different from what happens all over the world. It is a question of politicians playing politics, maybe not just to the gallery but trying to make themselves significant and avoid possible oblivion that comes with exclusion. No one wants to be out in the cold. Because of devolution, a new challenge has emerged. Governors who consider themselves to be good performers and having served two consecutive terms want to remain relevant in politics and decision-making. Some want to contest for the presidency, which makes the race more competitive. Their announcement alone is like telling those who have been long contesting for the seat to prepare for a serious fight. You also need to keep in mind that in a succession year, there is always cut-throat competition. It has started early.  Some of those interested to lead the country know that if they do not make it this time, they may find themselves shoved aside, to the back row of politics. And making a comeback will be hard. It is because of this that we are seeing this new phenomenon of coalition-building. It is worth noting that talks of coalitions started after the handshake deal between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga on March 9, 2018. That means they have the challenge of oiling their political machinery, and lining  up their allies and consolidating a grassroots network . They know that if you are close to the government, your political machinery will be well-oiled towards that gruelling electioneering year. Coalitions also keep you in the limelight by helping you to make it to the headlines. They also make you an item of discussion during political conversations. The governance expert spoke to the Star. 