Meru MCAs are demanding answers on the utilisation of Sh36 million in anti-coronavirus projects. They are questioning reports that the county used Sh382,000 to construct Covid-19 pit latrines, screening items worth Sh729,000 and water tanks for Sh991,500. The assembly committee on Budget and Appropriation sent a letter to the executive demanding to be furnished with various expenditures incurred to date in the anti-coronavirus drive. The Julius Mbijjiwe-led committee expressed fears that the money may not have been used properly after the response detailing various expenditures incurred by the executive and requesting a more detailed report. Municipality MCA Elias Murega who is a member of the Public Accounts committee raised the question even as it emerged that the devolved unit had so far spent Sh12.6 million on various remedial interventions. Murega wants the executive to furnish the assembly with information on the budget allocated to the fight against the virus. He wants the assembly provided with descriptions of commodities purchased and the documentary evidence to back that up. “Our wish is to see how the monies this assembly has approved to ward-off the virus are utilised. We want to know how much has been used and whether the neediest have been reached,” he said. He said the assembly wants the executive to provide it with tabulated data on how personal protective equipment had been distributed, and tender documents and invoices for all expenditures on the anti-virus drive. Through a letter to Meru assembly clerk Jacob Kirari from Finance chief officer Joseph Chabari, the executive had allocated a budget of Sh36 million out of which Sh28.2 million has been utilised. Chabari said Sh1 million was spent on purchase of surgical masks supplied by Kitui County Textile Centre. Another Sh3.3 million was used to buy face masks and Sh2.8 million was utilised in public sensitisation. "Purchase of fumigation chemicals, facilitation of officers carrying out fumigation consumed Sh2.1 million while allowances for border point officers and officers taking Covid-19 tests to Nairobi absorbed Sh2.1 million. Some Sh550,000 and Sh96,000 were used to purchase sanitiser bottles and hand washing ingredients, respectively," the document stated. Other items were spraying pumps (Sh350,000), linen items, pharmaceuticals and non-pharmaceuticals (Sh5.5 million), nutritional commodities (Sh632,415) and pharmaceuticals and non-pharmaceuticals (Sh8.8 million). MCAs termed the response inadequate as it did not spell out the exact projects, costs and lacked the relevant documentary evidence. In April, Meru Deputy Governor Titus Ntuchiu, who is also the Finance executive, denied the county had misused Sh36 million. Edited by Henry Makori