Baringo Monday confirmed five Covid-19 positive cases, leaving only Samburu and West Pokot as the counties the coronavirus is yet to reach. The Health Ministry said all five cases were in Marigat subcounty. The Health ministry warned that the virus will soon spread to the entire country. As of Monday, the caseload was 17,975 after 440 new cases were confirmed by the ministry. The new cases were from a sample of 3,197 tested in a day. The cumulative tests conducted is 279,612. “From the cases, 437 are Kenyans while three are foreigners, with 286 men and 154 women,” Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said in a statement. The youngest case was a one-year-old infant, with the oldest case being 84 years. “On a positive note, 90 patients were discharged from various hospitals bringing the total number of recoveries to 7,833. We thank our healthcare workers for this achievement,” Kagwe said. Nairobi still leads in the number of cases after recording 326 new cases. Machakos had 32 new infections, Kajiado and Kiambu recorded 17 cases each while Uasin Gishu and Mombasa recorded 13 and 10 cases each respectively. Murang’a and Kilifi had five cases each, Busia, Wajir and Nandi with two cases each while Nyeri, Embu, Taita Taveta and Tharaka Nithi had one case each. In terms of distribution per subcounty, Nairobi’s Lang’ata leads with 59 cases followed by Embakasi East with 46 cases. Wastlands had 38 cases, Embakasi West 29, Kibra 23, Dagoretti North 17, Embakasi South and Kasarani had 16 cases each, Embakasi Central 14 while Embakasi North, Roysambu, Ruaka, Starehe, Kamukunji, Dagoretti South and Mathare recorded 13, 10, 10,10, six, three and one case respectively. In Machakos, all the cases were in Kajiado East 11, Kajiado North three, and Kajiado Central three. In Kiambu the 17 cases are distributed in Ruiru six, Kiambu Town five, Kiambaa two, Thika two while Kabete and Limuru had one case each. In Uasin Gishu, the cases were in Ainabkoi 11, Kapseret and Kesses had one case each while in Mombasa the 10 cases were in Mvita four, Jomvu and Nyali two while Changamwe and Likoni recorded one case each. The cases in Murang’a are found in Kiharu two with Gatanga Maragua and Mathioya having one case each. Four out of the five cases in Kilifi were in Kaloleni and one in Rabai while the two cases in Busia were in Matayos and Teso Noth. The two cases in Wajir were in Wajir East while the one recorded in Nyeri was in Nyeri Central In Embu, the one case was in Mbeere North, in Nandi the one case was in Emgwen, in Taita Taveta the case was in Voi while the one case in Tharaka Nithi is on Chuka. Five more patients died, raising the fatalities to 285.