It is cowardly to hit someone who is already down, but this must be said in the public interest: Convicted MP John Waluke and his accomplice Grace Wakhungu should make full disclosure. Their appeal depends on walking in the light. Their studious silence on identities of key accomplices abets the crime. Waluke and accomplice received Sh90m. But who are the beneficiaries of the rest of the Sh297,389,505? Since the Unknown received a bigger chunk, he must be the mastermind of the plunder. Waluke and Wakhungu were conduits. They shouldn’t hung when the kingpin gets away with economic genocide. The unnamed taker has a traceable account. Cheques, like vouchers, and other payment processing documents, can be traced. The receiving and paying bank has the information. The custodians of NCPB client account have the information. Waluke and Wakhungu should not expect the mercy of the appellant Bench until they sing. The public shall hold them accountable until they make full disclosure. They should not allow integrity to die in the darkness of silence. Full disclosure will aid the fight against corruption. Silence subverts integrity under the guise of protecting sacred cows. The EACC can still bring up charges against the NCPB management of 2009, when the conspiracy was executed. The EACC can also  prosecute Mr Unknown, and lawyers who knowingly facilitated the plunder. The Waluke conviction underscores latent capacity of the EACC to demonstrate that corruption does not pay. The suspects may, for now, enjoy the glory of being bubble billionaires, as they do in the counties, but justice will soon catch up with them. The Waluke conviction also sends a salutary message to MPs who squander public funds with impunity and disdain for the common good. Yet the same suspects are still plotting for reelection in 2022 to continue the pilferage. Pity the cheering, suffering masses. Pilferers of counties are known. Their accomplices are known. Their proceeds of impunity are known. Their assets before coming to public office and after are traceable. Their booties display conspicuous consumption in the face of massive dire want. The EACC has affidavits from disillusioned whistleblowers. But it still has a chance to reclaim public confidence. With the score against Waluke and accomplice, the EACC under the leadership of Twalib Mbarak is on the right course. The conviction also shows the results of competent prosecution, and potential for judicial independence. The anti-graft and integrity agencies can still reclaim public confidence in the fight against corruption. DPP Noordin Hajji and Mbarak owe this to Kenya, The Waluke conviction is also a salutary advisory to lawyers: They should counsel their clients to uphold integrity in public office. To cry for judicial mercy when caught in filth, is to vomit on the shoes of taxpayers. When lawyer Cliff Ombeta pleaded for sympathy for the drowning MP, he was laughing at taxpayers. By saying the MP may lose his parliamentary seat if he is jailed, the lawyer forgets there are competent people who can represent disappointed Sirisia voters. The people see a glimmer of hope in the conviction. Corruption erodes the moral fabric of society; violates social and economic rights of the poor, hustlers, and the vulnerable; undermines democracy; subverts the rule of law, which is the pillar of every civilized society; retards development; and denies society and particularly the poor the benefits of free and open competition. EACC must continue to pounce to deny holders of public office the undeserved legs-up in the plunder of public resources. And to Anti-Corruption Court chief magistrate  Elizabeth Juma, the Bench needs more of you.