It seems some allies of Deputy President William Ruto (pictured) are celebrating how Raila Odinga’s ODM has taken Jubilee ‘hostage.’ Moments after two female senators exchanged blows on Wednesday, two of the DP's confidants were heard saying they were happy with ODM’s hard stance on scooping House committee leadership seats. They said even those who have been celebrating their removal have also been kicked out of their positions to pave way for the ‘bully’ ODM members. Still about DP's allies. Why have some of Ruto's men who had promised to reject new postings to House committees changed tune? The legislators were purged from chair and vice chair positions of House committees. They vowed not to sit in new committees that the Jubilee Party seconded them to. However, a week after the changes, the lawmakers have been punctual in the panel meetings. One of them said they had to eat humble pie to survive. One MP who is a vocal supporter of the DP and was removed from his position as chairman of a powerful committee, said, "Where do you want us to eat. I must come. That was politics." A governor from Rift Valley recently shocked journalists in Parliament Buildings. The Jubilee governor had appeared before a House oversight committee to respond to audit queries. During the grilling, the county boss was unable to explain how his administration spent billions of taxpayers’ money disbursed to the county. Moments after the meeting ended, the governor who was accompanied by CECs, called all the officers and gave them a tongue lashing, demanding to know why they did a shoddy job that caused him embarrassment before the senators. One of the officers later confided to Corridors that their boss is ‘hard to advise.’ He disclosed that before their date with the senators, they had sought a meeting with him to go through the responses but he refused. The speaker of a county assembly dominated by Jubilee MCAs has become the talk of the town. Reason? The speaker has managed to have a top police officer in the county in his pockets. In return, the officer has deployed tens of armed officers to man the county assembly premises round the clock. The aim, according to insiders, is to keep at bay some MCAs who have clashed with him over his style of leadership. The officers are said to be spending day and night manning the premises. Their boss is seen every evening visiting the speaker’s office to collect his ‘daily subsistence.’