Awendo legislator Walter Owino has termed as fake and a political witch-hunt a report by activists that he is among MPs who did not speak in Parliament in 2019. Speaking to the Star over the phone on Wednesday, the legislator said he had spoken several times on the floor of the House and even sponsored a bill in 2017 on sugar cane sector and privatisation. He said the report released Wednesday by Mzalendo Trust, a parliamentary monitoring organisation, was ill-advised. “They should correctly check the Hansard report, peruse through YouTube for official Parliament videos and even check the press. I have spoken several times,” Owino said. In the report, Owino was listed alongside Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi and Nakuru Town West’s Samuel Arama and 16 others for not speaking in 2019. The organisation said the legislators had consistently failed to make a contribution at the plenary, saying their poor performance undermined the role of the House. “I wonder what method was used to place me in the ranks. I see politics and mischief in the listing. This is in bad faith,” Owino said. A video on YouTube dated February 26, shows Owino in Parliament asking when Sony Sugar Company managers would pay workers. According to the report, 22 elected leaders, three from the Senate and the remaining 19 from the National Assembly, have never uttered a word. They are: Tepo (Isiolo South), Abdi Shurie (Balambala), Ahmed Gaal (Tarbaj), Johnson Naicca (Mumias West), Amin Deddy (Laikipia East), Geofrey Kingagi (Mbeere South), James Gakuya (Embakasi North), George Aladwa (Makadara), John Owino (Awendo), Oscar Sudi (Kapseret), Stanley Muthama (Lamu West), Gideon Konchella (Kilgoris), Justus Kizito (Shinyalu), Samuel Arama (Nakuru Town West), Alfred Sambu (Webuye East) and James Mukwe (Kabuchai). The report also said out of 116 bills passed in the National Assembly only 24 were assented to, translating to about 21 per cent, “the lowest in five years.” The Senate passed a total of 34 bills out of which only four were assented to, translating to only 12 per cent. Three female legislators Rose Museo (Makueni), Beatrice Kones (Bomet East) and Amina Gedow (Mandera) were also said to be silent. On the other side of the scale, Mzalendo Trust ranked David Sankok (nominated), Wilberforce Ojiambo (Funyula), Robert Pukose (Endebess) and Benson Makali (Kitui Central) as most the active speakers in the National Assembly. Millie Odhiambo of Suba North led the debates among female legislators alongside Jacqueline Oduol (nominated), Jennifer Shamala (nominated), Ruweida Obo (Lamu) and Sophia Noor (Ijara). The leading voices in the Senate were Ledama Ole Kina (Narok), Moses Wetang'ula (Bungoma), Aaron Cheruiyot (Kericho), Ochilo Ayako (Migori) and Getrude Musuruve (nominated). Busia Senator Amos Wako was listed as silent together with Mercy Chebeni (nominated), Christine Zawadi (nominated), Philip Mpaayei (Kajiado) and Halima Abdille (nominated). Edited by Henry Makori