When the government launched the human papillomavirus vaccine on October 18, last year, the intention was to reach 800,000 girls aged 10 years within a year. But data from the Health ministry shows that is far from being achieved with less than three months to go before the target deadline. Only 360,000 girls have received the life-saving jab against the cervical cancer-causing HPV, the Star established. The vaccination campaign was launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta in Mombasa. The vaccine is administered in two doses six months apart in about 9,000 public, private and faith-based facilities countrywide. The vaccine is administered at no cost to all 10-year-old girls as part of the country's routine immunisation schedule. The treatment is most effective when administered between the ages of nine and 14. The vaccine also prevents some other types of cancer like anal warts and cancer of the vulva. Like any other virus, there is no cure for HPV, but it is preventable through vaccination. According to the World Health Organisation, the East Africa region has the highest rate of cervical cancer in the world. Dr Collins Tabu,, the head of the Immunisation Programmes,  attributes the reduced rate of vaccination to the Covid-19 pandemic. The virus containment measures put in place has contributed to the attainment of low numbers than had been anticipated. “Much as the vaccine is offered in every health facility, the targeted outreaches were schools, which are closed,” Tabu said. “One year is not yet over yet we have reached 360,000 children. One year ends in October. We are behind schedule in achieving our targets,” he said. “For a large part of March, April and May, we had restrictions of public gatherings and movement, so mobilising communities for the outreaches was hard,” the medic said. He added: “That leaves you only with the option of health facility whose visits are limited. We are behind schedule but again just like the other vaccines, plans are underway to catch up with the vaccination.” The disruption threatens to reverse hard-won progress to reach more children and adolescents with a wider range of vaccines. Cervical cancer is ranked fourth globally in both incidence and cancer related mortality among women. In Kenya, cancer of the cervix is the second most common kind of cancer in women aged 15-44 after breast cancer. It kills nine women daily - about 3,000 annually. Testing for HPV is recommended as the primary screening method. A recent report shows that nationally, only 22 per cent of health facilities in the country offer cervical cancer prevention and control services. The WHO recommends vaccination of all girls and screening at least once a year for older women to reduce the risk of cancer. Tabu, however, had good news - the malaria vaccine trial launched last year is on track and ongoing.  - mwaniki fm