Hoteliers in Nakuru have a reason to smile after the county government offered to test over 60,000 workers for Covid-19 free of charge. With hotels starting to reopen following the lockdown that saw hundreds lose their jobs, the county said it was targeting the numbers in a month’s time. Public health officers from the county embarked on a similar exercise in Naivasha, which is home to tens of hotels. Naivasha subcounty hospital superintendent Dr Angeline Ithondeka said the exercise was fully sponsored by the county government. Speaking after launching the exercise, Ithondeka said they would use the results to assess the rate at which the disease affected area residents. “This is targeted surveillance and it’s meant to inform us on the disease pattern so that we can plan the way forward,” she said. Ithondeka said the hospital's isolation ward was currently full with seven patients while a similar number was under home-based isolation. “As the economy reopens the county government has embarked on targeted testing involving those persons who are in high risk areas and we shall involve other sectors soon,” she said. Subcounty public health officer George Ndichu said the first phase of the exercise targeted workers in hotels. He said the exercise was meant to give the community a chance to get tested as businesses started reopening. “This exercise is free of charge and it’s meant to monitor the pattern of this disease, how deep it has spread and measures to contain the spread,” he said. He said plans were under way to expand the isolation ward so that it would take more patients. Speaking on phone, county public health chief officer Samuel Kingori said they were targeting 60,000 food handlers. He said the county was home to hundreds of hotels, adding that they were keen to make sure the workers were tested before resuming their duties. “The country has embarked on this exercise that is free of charge and we shall make sure that in the next one month all food handlers are tested for Covid-19,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori