 Senators have launched investigations into the killing of three civilians by police officers in Lessos, Nandi county last month. The probe was launched last week after Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei sought the House's intervention to ensure justice to the victims and their families. Cobbler Lazarus Tirop, Cornelius Kipkogei and Timothy Kipyego were shot dead by the police following a protest by the residents. Tirop, a father of four, was confronted by two police officers and shot dead after he protested what hew felt was the harassment of a boda boda rider for not wearing a face mask. The officer had reportedly demanded a Sh50 bribe from the boda boda rider to avoid arrest. The shooting dead of the cobbler sparked protests with villagers storming Lessos police station and settling a blaze the house of the OCS. Both Kipkogei and Kipyego were shot dead in the ensuing protests that turned chaotic. Last week, Cherargei demanded to know the circumstances that led to the killing of the civilians who were supposed to be protected by the very police officers who killed them. Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka ordered the House security committee to summon top security officials led by Inspector General Hillary Mutyiambai to explain the deaths. “The committee should explain if the policy on community policing is still in operation and if yes, why has police failed to embrace it thus causing serious dis-harmony between the police and the community in Lessos,” Cherargei said. The lawmaker also demanded to know the actions taken by both the Ministry of Interior and the police against the killer cops. He wants the ministry and the IG to avail the full list of officers who were transferred as announced by the Deputy IG of police Edward Mbugua who visited the area soon after the killings. Mbugua had announced that the responsible officers had been interdicted and all the others at the station transferred. Cherargei also wants to know the measures, if any, that the Interior Ministry has put in place to ensure justice is served to the three families and the other people who were injured by the police. He wants the government to fully compensate the families of those killed and injured by the officers during the scuffle. Mutyambai had earlier said the officers who killed the three would take personal responsibility for their actions. Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya and Nandi county police commander Samson Ole Kina also assured that stern action would be taken against the officers after investigations.  Edited by P.O