As the Covid-19 pandemic continues to claim lives and disrupt economies across the world, a new report has warned of similar outbreaks. The report released on Monday indicates there will be outbreaks unless governments take active measures to prevent zoonotic diseases from crossing into the human population. The report, 'Preventing the Next Pandemic: Zoonotic Diseases and How to Break the Chain of Transmission', is a joint effort of the United Nations Environment Programme and the International Livestock Research Institute. It was launched on World Zoonoses Day, observed by research institutions and nongovernmental entities on July 6. The day commemorates the work of French biologist Louis Pasteur who successfully administered the first vaccine against rabies, a zoonotic disease, on July 6, 1885. The report identified trends driving the increasing emergence of zoonotic diseases, including increased demand for animal protein, rise in intense and unsustainable farming; the increased use and exploitation of wildlife; and the climate crisis. The report found that Africa, in particular, which has experienced and responded to a number of zoonotic epidemics including most recently Ebola outbreaks, could be a source of important solutions to quell future outbreaks. “The science is clear that if we keep exploiting wildlife and destroying our ecosystems, then we can expect to see a steady stream of these diseases jumping from animals to humans in the years ahead,” said UNEP executive director Inger Andersen. “Pandemics are devastating to our lives and our economies, and as we have seen over the past months, it is the poorest and the most vulnerable who suffer the most. To prevent future outbreaks, we must become much more deliberate about protecting our natural environment.” A zoonotic disease is a disease that has passed into the human population from an animal source. “Covid-19, which has already caused more than half a million deaths around the world, most likely originated in bats. But Covid-19 is only the latest in a growing number of diseases including Ebola, MERS, West Nile fever and Rift Valley Fever – whose spread from animal hosts into human populations has been intensified by anthropogenic pressures,” the report says. The report reveals that every year, some two million people, mostly in low- and middle-income countries, die from neglected zoonotic diseases. “The same outbreaks can cause severe illness, deaths and productivity losses among livestock populations in the developing world, a major problem that keeps hundreds of millions of small-scale farmers in severe poverty. Jimmy Smith, ILRI director general, said zoonotic diseases are on the rise everywhere on the planet, and African countries have the potential to leverage this experience to tackle future outbreaks through approaches that incorporate human, animal and environmental health. The continent is home to a large portion of the world’s remaining intact rainforests and other wild lands. Africa is also home to the world’s fastest-growing human population, leading to an increase in encounters between livestock and wildlife and, in turn, the risk of zoonotic diseases. “The situation on the continent today is ripe for intensifying existing zoonotic diseases and facilitating the emergence and spread of new ones. But with their experiences with Ebola and other emerging diseases, African countries are demonstrating proactive ways to manage disease outbreaks," Smith said. "They are applying, for example, novel risk-based rather than rule-based approaches to disease control, which are best suited to resource-poor settings, and they are joining up human, animal and environment expertise in proactive One Health initiatives.” The report recommends practical steps that governments can take to prevent future zoonotic outbreaks, including investing in interdisciplinary approaches, including One Health, expanding scientific enquiry into zoonotic diseases and raising awareness. It also recommended improving cost-benefit analyses of interventions to include full cost accounting of societal impacts of disease, as well as strengthening monitoring and regulation practices associated with zoonotic diseases, including food systems. Edited by Henry Makori