Thirty vehicles were reduced to shells early Wednesday morning after a fire destroyed four garages at Ring Road Jua Kali Garage Association in Dagoretti Corner. Bernard Majengo, a garage owner, said he received a call at 4am that a fire had broken out at the garage. “By the time we arrived, there was nothing much we could do. We suspect it may have been caused by an electrical fault or a stove used for cooking,” he said. Majengo lost four high-end vehicles that clients had entrusted to him. “According to my estimates, I have lost close to Sh9 million, including seven cars we were working on. I had a Subaru worth Sh2.5 million and a Honda worth around Sh850,000,” Majengo said. Caleb Oguk, another garage owner, said he lost 11 vehicles. “Some of the vehicles had just come from the showroom and were undergoing modification. In fact, the damage would have been worse had it not been for the quick action of the fire fighters,” he said. A list of the vehicles seen by the Star shows that some of them belong to government agencies. Jacob Wadawe, the chair of the Ring Road Jua Kali Garages Association, said he was notified by night guards who saw fire billowing out of one of the garages. “The whole place looked like a bomb scene. There were loud explosions as the presence of petrol fuelled the fire to spread quickly,” he said. The association brings together 34 garage owners who collectively employ thousands of mechanics. Majengo expressed fears about the future of the 15 young mechanics that were earning their daily bread from his business. “The damage done here means that I have to start from scratch. These youngsters have nowhere to go,” he said. Dagoretti OCDP George Sedah said they are investigating the cause of the fire. “We will undertake elaborate investigations and require even the owners of the cars affected to write statements,” he said. Investigators will also explore the possibility of arson, he said. “We know that the land on which the garages sit does not belong to them. They will have to tell us whether there has been any conflicts within that area,” Sedah said. Edited by A.N