“Legend has it that if you drink a woman’s juices from the fountains found in her body… The first one here….” I take his head and pull him towards me. Our lips meet as we kiss. A long drawn out kiss as I show him to the first fountain of juices… a woman’s lips. I break away and direct him to my breast. “Then here….” He takes my nipple in his mouth - the second fountain of juices - and he circles it slowly with his tongue. He suckles it slowly. “What does the legend say?” he asks as he lets go and gives its twin equal attention. “Legend has it...” I say again, moaning slightly. “That when you drink from the first two fountains your spirit is in possession of the great medicine,” I say. “And the third?” he asks pushing me down towards the couch and spreading my legs. “The most powerful of them all,” I say as he buries his head in between my legs. “The juices from there will increase your ch’i, the life energy that in Chinese philosophy is present in all things.” He pauses and looks up at me. “I feel stronger already,” he says licking his lips. He returns to the task at hand and I must say, he knows what he is doing. Most guys only use the tip of their tongue to give head. But Tim also alternates between the flat part and sides of his tongue, giving off different types of sensations with every lick. He can tell the level of heat that is slowly building up as he teases my clit and alternates between sucking and blowing cool air on the pearly bead. The contrasting temperatures make me writhe uncontrollably. “I must be well on my way to being Zeus now,” he says as he slows down, stretching out my pleasure, longer and longer. My breath gets deeper and deeper, my lower body, arching towards him seemingly with a mind of its own. The orgasm is unexpected. I usually require some form of finger penetration combination to climax during oral sex but this is effortless. The best way I have ever heard an orgasm described is when you have an itch on your back but you can’t quite reach it... and then you do. Oral sex feels like that a lot for me. The sweet spot that you can’t quite reach until you do. Tim stays another hour and gets his money worth in terms of his Covid free certificates. As far as ratings go, he gets a firm 8 out of 10. I might have to sleep with him again. “What can I do for you?” he asks like a puppy, eager to please. That’s interesting. Men usually treat you like a goddess before you sleep with them and after they get what they want, everything changes. A man once described it to me as running after a train. Once you catch it, all you do is take a leisurely walk the next time it’s passing through. Tim however wants to run after he has already caught the train. It’s quite sweet actually. “I have everything I need, thanks,” I say. Everything except a freaking cover story. “Tim?” I say turning to him. “She’s not really better than me, is she?” I ask about my deputy still feeling insecure about my job. “Are you kidding? No one is better at your job than you are,” he reassures me. “Get better and come back, we all miss you.” Heck. He’s right. The only reason I’m out sick is because I took a pounding to my head after I got Chris to sign a long-term advertising contract with the magazine. No one is better at my job that I am. Damn straight.