The family of a 35-year-old man is seeking justice after he was brutalised by police officers enforcing the 7pm curfew on May 23. Joseph Macharia has been lying at the Port Reitz hospital in Changamwe Subcounty since, his mother Annrose Waruguru said. After admission on May 24, he was treated and discharged on June 23 but his condition worsened while at home and was readmitted on July 12 to date. “I have been with him all along. I cannot leave his side because I am the only one he has. I have stopped doing my menial jobs and things are now tough for me,” Waruguru said. Macharia, who used to do menial jobs, has not uttered a word since he was brutalised. He separated from his wife, who left with his son about two years ago. “He is the one who used to help me with upkeep money whenever I was down. Now he has nothing and my savings have been depleted,” Waruguru said. She has been unable to pay Sh6,000 for a head scan. Macharia feeds through pipes as he cannot take in solid foods. Waruguru holds his hands because left alone, Macharia writhes in pain and removes the pipes in the process. Maina, his elder brother, told the Star that Macharia responds to sound but one has to be keen to realise he has responded. Maina was locked out of Mombasa while in Eldoret. He only returned after the ban on movement into and of the city was lifted. “When I massage his legs, he shows he is in pain by gnashing his teeth,” Maina, the first of Waruguru’s three children, says. Macharia is her second born. Waruguru said Macharia was at her house at Wayani in Changamwe, where he ate his supper on the day he got injured. “It was around 6.45pm, when he left his food saying he needs to rush to his house before the 7pm, curfew time,” she said. He ran into police officers on patrol and they beat him senseless, she adds. Macharia had to crawl to his house. Waruguru said Macharia's neighbour called her the next day at around 4pm, Macharia’s neighbour telling her that he has not woken up since the previous night. The neighbours had to rush him to Port Reitz Hospital before Waruguru met them there. Muslims for Human Rights rapid response officer Francis Auma said the officers who beat him up must be identified and action taken against them. He said the National Police Service is returning to its previous status as a police force. “This has become a trend. Police brutalise innocent Kenyans in the name of enforcing the law,” Auma said. He said the time has come for the whole NPS to be retrained, especially on human rights. It is sad that those involved in brutalising Kenyans are almost never held accountable. “We cannot be complaining of the same thing year in year out and nothing is done,” he said. The junior officers who perpetrate atrocities against Kenyans are usually protected by their bosses, he said. Changamwe subcounty police commander Joseph Kavoo said police must act professionally at all times. He said though he was not around when the incident happened, he will ensure justice is done. “There are the channels to be followed so we can ensure these people get justice. This is a serious matter,” Kavoo said. The case was not reported to the police. Kavoo said for formal investigations to commence, a report must be filed. Edited by R.Wamochie