As the dust is settling after reconstitution of committees in the National Assembly, sources whisper to Corridors that a female MP from the Mt Kenya region rejected an offer to chair an influential house committee. The MP allied to the Tangatanga faction of Jubilee was approached by a politician with presidential ambitions and a PS to abandon DP  William Ruto’s camp but the legislator stood her ground. The MP who was even offered money argued that taking up the position would endanger her political career as she believes her constituents strongly support Ruto. The latest diplomatic postings by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has triggered disquiet, with some insiders saying the process deviates from the ministry's norm. Why? Unlike in the past when all diplomatic postings were announced to all and sundry in an internal circular, this time, officers to be posted were notified privately. This has raised questions about transparency and fairness. Diplomatic posting is the dream of many officers working in the ministry. Staff now wants PS Macharia Kamau and CS Raychelle Omamo (pictured) to assure them that all stand a fair chance to serve Kenya in the coveted jobs abroad. A cartel sponsored by interested investors in the energy sector is slowly beginning to assert itself following complaints over runaway electricity bills though cheaper power production options are available. Apparently, a power company is caught between a rock and a hard place because the investment is a preserve of the rich and the mighty who can engineer the sacking of those out of favour. A source says there’s a cold war between producers of green energy, who apparently are considered archenemies of the ruthless scavengers who line the pockets of key energy officials to continue producing at extortionate prices. An insider close to the heart of the matter claims the agreements signed recently times may never see the light of day unless the new cartel comprising eight individuals from a single community is dismantled quickly. A Principal Secretary and a CEO of a state parastatal are involved in a vicious war. At the heart of the protracted war entering its second month now is suspicion that one of them is behind the leaked information of how money meant for some critical procurement was diverted for personal use. The CEO is said to enjoy close ties and protection from a Cabinet Secretary in the mother ministry while the PS is enjoys support from another CS. In the last two weeks, their dirty tricks have played out in the public, with each side hiring spin masters to run negative propaganda against each other.