A family in Naivasha is crying foul after their son went missing in one of the largest game sanctuaries in the area while on his way home. Hopes of finding Joseph Irungu, a Form 2 student at Maella Secondary school, alive were dashed after his clothes were recovered inside the Oserian Sanctuary. Irungu's father John Mungai said the second-born son disappeared on April 20 while on his way home and efforts to track him had been unsuccessful. Mungai said that they had visited several police stations and the sanctuary but they had not received any assistance. “One person who was last seen with my son was arrested but later released in unclear circumstances and the painful search continues,” he said. Residents of Kahuho village in Maella location have accused the guards in the sanctuary. They said five people had disappeared in the sanctuary and their remains have never been recovered. Stephen Muthua, a leader of the area, said that the sanctuary which harbours hundreds of wild animals had become a threat to their lives and livestock. Muthua said that they had been conducting daily searches in the area with the hope that they would get the body but this had turned out to be futile. “In all the five cases that people have disappeared in this sanctuary we have only recovered their clothes and we hope that this is the last case we are reporting,” he said. Former area MCA Kariuki Mujing’a who said that the recovery of clothes in the sanctuary proved that the minor could have been murdered. “We have seen people disappear inside this park without any trace and its time the national government intervened and unearthed the truth,” he said. Irungu's aunt Lucy Wangui told of the family’s pain as they continued the daily searches with hopes of ever getting the teenager alive diminishing. “The management of this sanctuary treasure wildlife more than human beings and will act once an animal is killed but keep quiet when a person goes missing,” she said. A senior police officer at Kongoni police station said that a missing-person-file had been opened after the case was reported. (edited by o. owino)