In the whole world of sports, there is no job that is more thankless than that of being a referee. Arbitrating between two competing  parties leaves one between a rock and a hard place. Whatever decision you make will always be met by opposition no matter how legitimate the call may be. It’s a typical “damned if I do, damned if I don’t” scenario. Regardless, integrity of match officials is of utmost importance but going by the several complaints lodged or aired by club officials in recent years, there is no doubt that the impartiality of referees has been questioned. Top Kenyan match official Aden Marwa was fingered for alleged bribery. According to reports, Marwa was due to officiate at the 2018 Fifa World Cup in Russia, but a week before the tournament was due to start, the BBC released an investigation conducted by a Ghanaian journalist which implicated Marwa in a bribery scandal. He was filmed receiving US$600 before a previous game. He subsequently withdrew from the World Cup. This damaging revelations not withstanding, many match officials are determined to stick to the ethics as laid down by Fifa. One of them is youthful referee Isaack Rio Hamisi who is setting the standards for the next generation of match officials. “As referees, we should not always get involved in unsporting acts by manipulating the game through bribes or gifts given by team officials. Integrity should be our core value as referees,” advises Hamisi. Hamisi did not set out to be a match official when he started off in football in Korogocho. He was a budding lower league player with a promise to one day play in the top flight league until a career-ending injury curtailed his progress. “I became a referee after I got an injury from playing football in the year 2012. My role model was Davies Omweno who is a Kenyan Fifa referee,” revealed Hamisi. Like many officials across all leagues in the country, Hamisi has endured intimidation from opposing fans seeking to gain advantage to their side. “I have been on the end of verbal abuse from spectators. We have also struggled for match control in hostile areas but all this not withstanding, we have tried our best to ensure the level of officiating is of the required standard,” he stated. Still officiating National Super League matches, Hamisi is still gathering experience to one day be among the top referees in the country. However, it is his role in the popular youth tournament in the country, Chapa Dimba that stands out in his career thus far. “Officiating in the finals of the top tournament in the whole country (Chapa Dimba tournament 2019) was the highlight of my career. I knew this clash was a definitive moment for most of the youngsters football careers and we had to get it right and I am glad we did it,” Rio explained. Hamisi harbours hopes of being the best referee in the country and be able to officiate at the top class levels including the African Cup of Nations and World Cup. “For that to happen for me or any other referee, discipline and hard work is the key to strive higher in this field,” he said. With the current Football Kenya Federation going out of their way to build the capacity of match officials, Rio believes soon enough more Kenyan referees will be in the upper echelons of Fifa. “As referees, we need to do more trainings with the most qualified instructors so as to be in the same level with other referees from the world and also by giving all the referees equal opportunities available,” Hamisi urged. His sentiments were echoed by Sylvester Kirwa, the referees manager at the federation, who noted they had seen an increased number of referees joining the elite status. “Hamisi is a good referee. He has risen well progressively. He has a great future as a referee. Discipline-wise he is very much okay. If he continues in the same path, he will be a good referee. Currently, we are planning to promote three referees to the KPL level and Hamisi is among the top ten in that group,” Kirwa stated. The federations referee chief revealed that there is a program in place to help gauge the technical capacity of referees like Hamisi before they are thrown into the deep end of officiating KPL matches. “When I was employed by the federation, we decided to focus on certain  key areas thus building capacity, recruitment, development and having more women.” Kirwa added: “Right now for the referees, we deal with technical and physical programs. In the technical area, we give them tests which they tackle in their own forums and then the physical bit follows monthly. We are equally planning to do Covid-19 tests for them in the next seven days as individuals to ensure they are in the right physical health to resume duties when we get the green-light.” Further, Kirwa said the federation got two critical Fifa funded courses and he says this changed the fate of local referees. “The result is that we sent women referees to the Africa Women Nations Cup (AWCON) and the World Cup for the first time. “Our two referees, Mary Ann and Caroline Wanjala have also joined the Elite ‘A’ category. Previously, referees used to pay money to attend courses but we abolished these allowing more of them to be trained,” he said. Kirwa said the number of men elite referees has also gone up to three with Peter Waweru, Gilbert Cheruiyot and  Omweno joining the club. “Locally, we have seen very young referees like Hamisi, coming up and now majority of those handling the KPL and NSL matches are between 24-33 years. This means that they have another 15 years at the top.” Hamisi’s passion for football does not end when the final whistle is blown. He takes up the responsibility of nurturing the next generation of footballers. Currently, he is the CEO of Kariobangi Sports, a club that plays in the Nairobi County League. “I have an enduring love for football and that is why the little money I get I put it up for match day expenses of this team. I will have fulfilled my goal if one of our players one day features in the KPL,” he vowed. Hamisi also serves in various ad hoc sports committees in Embakasi North, where his initiatives have convinced the area leaders to support football teams in the constituency. He hopes that he will use his contacts to help develop various sports in the area particularly in terms of infrastructure.  BIOGRAPHY NAME : Isaac Hamisi D.O.B: December 23, 1991 NATIONALITY: Kenyan WEIGHT: 74kg HEIGHT: 5.9 Status: Married  Education 2019: RTI-Diploma in Project Management 2010:  Babadogo High School-NRB (KCSE) 2007: Marura Primary School-Nairobi (KCPE)  Clubs 2008-2010: Kariobangi Youngstars (FKF Nairobi County League) 2011: Dandora Maona (Nairobi Regional League) 2012-2013: Kariobangi Sports (Nairobi County League)  Achievements  2016: Won the best referee award (FKF Nairobi branch) 2012: Attended basic referee course at Nyayo National Stadium 2015: Advanced/Elite B referee training at Kasarani Stadium Responsibilities Youth representative Kasarani sub branch Nairobi region referees co-ordinator Embakasi North (CDF) sports committee chairman 