Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana has denied that he is Deputy President William Ruto’s project. During an interview with Musyi FM, Kibwana said he was a serious presidential candidate for 2022. Kibwana said he is being pushed by Kenyans to vie because he has demonstrated good leadership and has been instrumental in constitutional amendments whose impact has been manifested in their lives. “This push by Kenyans started in 1997 when we began amending the Constitution during late President Daniel Moi’s rule,” he said. Adding, “Those who remember the events then, opposition leaders who include retired President Mwai Kibaki, Raila Odinga, Charity Ngilu, late Kijana Wamalwa and others wanted me to be a compromise candidate because they could not agree between themselves and I rejected the call because I was not ready to get into politics then." He said all he wanted was the amendment of the Constitution for a better and a free Kenya that was economically stable, but Moi won the election. The former university don said the push to vie for the top seat re-emerged when he was the chairman of the National Convention Executive Council. He later joined politics and was elected Makueni MP and served as a minister and assistant minister before the Makueni governorship. The second-term governor attributes his success as governor to the experience he earned when he was the minister for Environment, Lands and in the office of retired President Kibaki. “Due to my achievements and what we have done in Makueni, Kenyans have raised their voice and have said I must be their President whether I like it or not and that is why I say I am Wanjiku’s project,” he said. “But when you hear some say I am Ruto’s project and others are saying I am Uhuru’s project, know that they are afraid of my candidature, they know how strong I am,” Kibwana said. The 66-year-old has been accusing Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka of doing very little to bring development in Ukambani region since he took the region’s mantle as the Kingpin in 1985. Before his declaration for the top seat, Kibwana was reelected on a Wiper ticket after he abandoned Muungano party. Kibwana’s quest for president is likely to complicate Kalonzo’s bid. The governor said he will traverse the whole country to convince Kenyans to elect him.  Edited by R.Wamochie