Health ministry officials will visit all the 47 counties to ensure they have ICU beds in preparation of an expected Covid-19 surge. Counties were directed to ensure that each of the counties establish 300 isolation bed capacities and also increase ICU beds. Funds worth Sh 5B were also disbursed towards the same. "Effective today, MOH officers will be having a nationwide inspection of preparedness of the counties for Covid-19, working together with Council of Governors," Doctor Patrick Amoth said. "We will be going round to verify preparedness starting with Coastal region this weekend." Speaking during his question and answer on Twitter on Wednesday, Amoth said they are seeking to expand testing for the virus to county levels. "Currently there are 28 Covid-19 testing laboratories spread across the country. This capacity is progressively being increased nationwide," Amoth said. Amoth said the testing capacity across the country has progressively been revamped up. But he noted that the low numbers in testing is attributable to the persisting international supply chain challenges which is not peculiar to Kenya. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said the counties must be prepared. "We are training people at the county level so that there is capability of taking care of the cases. Most of the cases are asymptomatic. They are not sick but can pass the virus," he said. This was after President Uhuru Kenyatta lifted the cessation of movement in Nairobi Metropolitan Area, Mombasa and Mandera counties from Tuesday, June 7, 2020. This allows people to travel upcountry and might take the virus to their homes. However, the President  extended the nationwide curfew currently in place between 9 pm and 4 am by another 30 days. The country has about 518 Intensive Care Unit hospital beds spread across 25 counties, according to a report compiled by the Ministry of Health. Nearly half of these are in Nairobi County at 246. Kenyatta National Hospital has the largest number with 55 ICU beds followed by Kenyatta University Hospital with 44 beds. Chibanzi Mwachonda, the secretary general of the Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union, said the figure may have changed because the report was compiled on March 31.