An MP from Kakamega county was almost beaten senseless after he was found being cuddled by the wife of a businessman at a leading county hotel. The woman was caught red-handed with the legislator in her arms. The MP's bodyguard and friends are said to have been in another area of the hotel to give the MP privacy. A hotel worker tells Corridors the attacker seemed to have been tipped by people with the MP. Luckily, hotel workers restrained the man from teaching the MP a lesson. The woman is said to have vanished into thin air when she saw her husband. Nurses are wondering what became of the government’s promise that talks were underway to ensure they get their Covid-19 risk allowances. It has been over two months since the promise was made and disquiet is also building among clinical officers, medical lab officers, physiotherapists and biochemists. Health Chief Administrative Secretary Mercy Mwangangi (pictured) gave assurances talks were ongoing, but health workers said no invitation has been received despite a letter dated  May 4, 2020. Workers demand a flat rate risk allowance of Sh30,000, promotions and protective gear for frontline workers handling Covid-19 cases. They rejected an allowance of Sh10,000 to Sh15,000 contained in the Sh3 billion welfare package announced by President Uhuru Kenyatta. News that the Kenya Revenue Authority is set to roll out a new revenue collection system in Nairobi county before the end of this month has not been warmly received by everyone at City Hall. KRA has indicated that the new system, the Nairobi County Revenue System (NRS), would do away with the manual or semi-manual revenue processes that are unpredictable, mostly not documented, long and tedious and are prone to 'interference' by both staff and customers. However, sources at City Hall whisper to Corridors that some strategically placed staffers fear the new system to seal loopholes would mean the end to that extra shilling for their pockets and there could be plans to sabotage the system. Residents of Western appear to be fed up with the meetings almost every weekend by some leaders from the region. Western has been a beehive of activity every weekend, with leaders criss-crossing the region preaching unity. In Bungoma, locals have since formed a WhatsApp group where they compare notes on the development record of those telling them to unite. One legislator, in particular, has been on the receiving end as residents have been posting pictures of dilapidated roads, schools and health facilities in his constituency. They demand he address those concerns first before telling them to unite in readiness for the 2022 election.