Churches have changed worship and liturgical procedures to adhere to Covid-19 regulations after reopening. The government allowed churches and mosques to reopen after closing them for four months in efforts to slow down the spread of the Coronavirus. Some of the changes the Star observed on Sunday at St Joseph’s The Worker Catholic Church in Wote town, Makueni County, include offering and partaking of the Holy Communion. Congregants were directed to give their offerings through M-Pesa till number pinned on the walls of the church. “Those who have cash can still give their offering in the traditional way but keep distance as you walk to the offertory box,” Fr Maria Munguti, who presided over the second mass at the church under Makueni Parish, announced. During administration of the holy communion by the administrator, who may be the priest, catechist or another qualified person in the church, a participant is required to move closer, stretch his or her hands where the Sacrament is placed before he moves a distance to take it. Traditionally, during administration of the Eucharist, the faithful moves close to the administrator who puts the Sacrament in the mouth of the faithful. Ushers placed at different points inside the church kept monitoring movement of faithful to ensure social distancing during the two events that are the most interactive during the church service. During the one-hour service, congregants sat a distance apart, with ushers directing those entering the church to marked spaces on the seats. According to Fr Munguti, the church made a programme that will guide the faithful on when to attend the services through their small prayer groups, popularly known as Jumuiyas, to ensure there is social distancing during the service. “We have three Sunday services and each is supposed to accommodate only three prayer groups and whose members are within the authorised age group,” said Fr Munguti, adding that they will ask the government to consider setting a special day for the aged or the under age to attend church services. Young children below the 13 years and those aged above 58 are not allowed to go to church, according to the regulations set by the government in bid to slow down the spread of Covid-19. The number of altar boys serving during the mass was also reduced as only two were serving in the mass. In the arrangement, there is an allowance of one hour to allow cleaning and fumigation of the church after each service. Some of the congregants applauded the government for allowing churches to reopen. “Although some of the procedures have changed, we feel good when we worship together because worship is more touching in fellowship that when one is doing it alone in the house,” said Christine Muthoka, the woman secretary in the church. Michael Kimuyu, a choir leader, said he was happy the church has opened but wishes there could be more room for singing. In Gospel Campaigners Fellowship church in the town, the faithful gave their offering in envelopes and others through M-Pesa. Pastor Titus Uswii said the church has formed a special committee that will be ensuring Covid-19 regulations are adhered to during church service as well as educating faithful on the protocols. “I am not threatened by the numbers because our members are normally within the required 100,” Uswii said. Other requirements are wearing of masks and handwashing before one enters the church. The government allowed churches to reopen after recommendations from the interfaith council headed by Archbishop Antony Muheria.