ANC and Ford Kenya rebels have emerged top beneficiaries in the just-concluded House committees’ reorganisation, further widening the rift in the opposition coalition. Eseli Simiyu (Tongaren) and Wafula Wamunyinyi (Kanduyi) bagged powerful positions as President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition leader Raila Odinga sides reconstituted parliamentary committees on Wednesday. Another major beneficiary is ANC nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi who, despite his long-running battles with his party leader Musalia Mudavadi got placement to more plum house panels than any other ANC lawmaker. Eseli and the Kanduyi MP are the face of Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula’s ouster bid. Eseli will sit in four committees alongside his deputy Minority Whip seat, a position he assumed after Nasa kicked out Wetang’ula’s man Chris Wamalwa (Kiminini). Eseli’s committees include Health, Public Accounts, Appointment and Selection committees. Wamunyinyi, on the other hand, will chair the National Government Constituency Development Funds committee taking over from Igembe North MP Maoka Maore who is now the deputy chief whip. Osotsi, who at one time threatened to kick Mudavadi out of ANC, found himself in four powerful committees, making him the only ANC lawmaker in the highest number of committees. Osotsi will be sitting in the Communication, Information and Innovation Committee, Committee on Selection, House Business Committee and Implementation Committee where he is the vice chairperson. The development is likely to escalate tension in the Nasa coalition as both ANC and Ford Kenya already read mischief in the elevation of their errant members. Currently, the Mudavadi-Wetang'ula axis has fallen out with Raila and the duo is blaming the ODM leader of sponsoring coup in Ford Kenya. Already, Wamalwa - who Wetang’ula installed as party secretary general to replace Eseli – has protested the manner in which the seats were allocated which saw Eseli bag four while other MPs got one. “Since he (Eseli) is in leadership, he should be in one committee. He has allocated himself committees and forgot to push for the interest of Ford Kenya members,” Wamalwa protested on the floor of the House on Wednesday. Speaking to the Star on Thursday, Lugari MP Ayub Savula who doubles as ANC’s deputy party leader, said they do not care whether ODM decides to reward their rebels adding that their focus is consolidating the grassroots support for Mudavadi ahead of 2022. “ANC is not interest in chairing any committee. That is the work of Uhuru and his party, by ODM invading Jubilee territory, they are creating an avenue where they will be part of the government. Immediately they sign a post-election deal then we will remove them from those minority positions,” Savula said. Edited by R.Wamochie