Three ODM legislators have denied claims that the proposed constitutional changes are not meant to create elective positions for certain individuals. Instead, Senate Minority leader James Orengo (Siaya), Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang’ and Rarieda MP Otiende Amolo said the amendments will help the majority of Kenyans. Orengo said political leaders opposed to the Building Bridges Initiative report are spreading falsehoods on its content. He said the BBI implementation will be done without bias or considering the interests of an individual. “It’s high time they stopped cheating Kenyans that the imminent constitutional reforms are meant for creating elective posts for anybody in this country,” Orengo said during the burial of former trade unionist Were Ogutu in Karachuonyo on Friday. The Raila Odinga ally said BBI recommendations will be changed by Kenyans and the mandated institutions, noting that the final document will be approved through a vote. “Constitutions are amended either trough a referendum or parliamentary [process\. We are waiting for President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga to receive the BBI report officially,” Orengo said. Kajwang’ told politicians allied to Deputy President William Ruto to stop campaigning against the BBI. “Political leaders who want the BBI report to fall are not interested in what will help the majority of Kenyans,” Kajwang' said. He said the law changes are aimed at ending historical and electoral injustices.. “We want Kenya to have peace after every election but this can only be done through the constitutional amendments contained in the BBI,” he said. Amolo said the BBI report will enhance good leadership in Kenya. “The BBI has many advantages, which will benefit the ordinary Kenyans. Let nobody stand on its path,” Amolo said. Constitutional amendments through BBI report have divided Jubilee Party into two factions. A section of MPs allied to President Kenyatta support the report, while those allied to Ruto oppose it. Edited by EKibii