Kenyan Premier League returnees Nairobi City Stars have joined the race to sign the Western Stima defenders Kelly Wesonga and Maurice Ojwang ahead of the new season. Stars' chief executive officer, Patrick Korir, said the two defenders who are currently attached to Western Stima are part of the five new signings they are looking to add to their squad in readiness for life in the elite league. The Kawangware-based outfit, who were promoted alongside Bidco United, will also seek to bring in holding midfielder, a winger and a striker.The club will also part ways with five players whom coach Sanjin Alagic will deem surplus to requirement. "We have launched negotiations with the two Stima players but we haven't agreed on anything. They are willing to negotiate but the travel restrictions earlier imposed on Nairobi have been working against our plan as the players are keen to discuss on the table rather than virtual means. Apart from the two, we are seeking holding midfielder a winger and a striker, " he revealed. Korir said they turned to Stima after failing to lure Michael Mutinda and Baraka Badi from KCB. He said the bankers were not interested in releasing the two players who prior to the suspension of sporting activities owing to coronavirus, had earned their first call in the senior national team, having previously featured in the junior cadres. "The coach wanted the two KCB players but after enquiring from the club, we were told they were not for sale. It was our plan to negotiate and agree with players whom the technical bench had spotted while the league was on and have them sign contracts after the window opens. Covid-19 has disrupted our scheme but we will wrap up the business once the government gives us the way forward, " he disclosed. City Stars' bid to secure Ojwang's services will, however,  be put to test by KPL moneybags Wazito and Tusker who are reportedly interested in the Harambee Stars trialist. Ojwang returned to Stima in November last year, barely four months after decamping to Gor Mahia while Wesonga, who was named the third best defender in 2018-2019 season, joined the power men at the start of the past season from Sony Sugar.