Agriculture CS Peter Munya has rejected claims that a meeting held by a section of Mt Kenya leaders in Nairobi last Wednesday focussed on succession politics. Speaking at Ndomuru during a livestock vaccination drive, Munya said the meeting convened by National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi had only three items on its agenda: Kipipiri MP Amos Kimunya's new role as National Assembly Majority leader, Mt Kenya unity and the Building Bridges Initiative. Kimunya took over from Garissa Township MP Aden Duale, who suffered a blow in a purge that saw DP William Ruto's allies lose key leadership positions in Parliament. Munya said succession politics was never discussed, adding that President Uhuru Kenyatta had warned against premature politics and emphasised development, hence they could not go against his call. Those in attendance were Munya, Muturi, Kimunya, governors Kiraitu Murungi (Meru), Ndiritu Muriithi (Laikipia), Lee Kinyanjui (Nakuru), Muthomi Njuki (Tharaka Nithi), former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth and Senator Charles Kibiru (Kirinyaga). “The sure way to get traction is doing development. It is totally misleading to call the media and claim your power-angry antics. I was not part of any such meeting. We discussed Mt Kenya unity and how to make BBI succeed. Nobody is preventing anybody from ascending to power when the time comes. A time will come and Uhuru will give us direction," Munya said. In an apparent reference to the meeting, Igembe North MP Maoka Maore had warned leaders against politicking, saying 2022 is far and leaders will be judged based on their development record. “The leaders deceived people through a press conference. We urge leaders to give Uhuru ample time to finish his term and he will tell us the next move," he said. "No one should plan a sitting president’s succession. We condemn the unfortunate and unnecessary political sentiments by those leaders. We don’t want politics at this time, we want development." But Munya termed it propaganda for anyone to claim the meeting was meant to deliberate on getting Uhuru's successor. “The speaker called us for lunch to thank God and MPs for electing Kimunya as National Assembly Majority leader. The headlines you see of succession politics is a hoax. It is Kenyans to decide their next president, not a boardroom meeting," he said. "We have President Uhuru as the Mt Kenya Kingpin and you cannot purport to hold boardroom meeting in the deliberation of the successor of someone whose term is two years away from its expiry. That’s retrogressive politics."