Flower farm workers in Naivasha have denounced union representatives for engaging in politics as they suffer layoffs and salary cuts. Since the Covid-19 pandemic hit in March, more than 5,000 workers have lost their livelihood. Kenya is the biggest supplier of flowers to the European market. Naivasha has more than 60 flower and vegetable farms employing more than 150,000 workers. Labour CS Simon Chelugui and CEO of AEA Wesley Siele toured Ol Njorowa flower farm in Naivasha on Monday to assess the effects of Covid-19. Farm operators want CBA negotiations postponed. Jane Nzilani from Oserian flower farm said on Monday more than 800 workers were sent home but the union failed to act. Nzilani hit out at Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli for engaging in politics as the workers continue to suffer. “Many workers have lost their jobs while others have been sent home on unpaid leave yet Atwoli is busy politicking as we suffer,” she said in Naivasha on Monday. The flower company was recruiting new workers at a lower salary and former workers were unsure of what would happen to them, she said. Many have taken up fishing, growing earthworms and other business to put food on the table. Workers’ representative Kiprop Kosgey said they were suffering and their union wasn’t helping. He said prostitution, domestic violence and family breakups have risen to alarming levels. “We had pegged our hopes on Atwoli but he is busy with Building Bridges politics as we suffer and it’s time for a change of leadership,” he said. He said top Cotu leaders were busy with 2022 politics while the country’s political leadership had gone silent as workers suffer. Former worker of Karuturi flower farm Andrew Akunda said since 2016 they had not received their savings. The company is in receivership. He said that Cotu had promised to intervene but workers were still waiting and want new leaders for the country’s trade unions. “The union bosses have turned to politics, forgetting the workers who have obediently contributed every month to Cotu,” he said. Union representative in Naivasha Ferdinand Juma dismissed the allegations and defended his bosses saying they have done a lot to protect the workers. He is secretary general of the Naivasha branch of the Kenya Plantation and Agricultural Workers Union. “We entered into an agreement with the employers association that no workers will be sent home during the pandemic. The union says workers sent on unpaid leave but not technically sacked. (Edited by V. Graham)  