 At least 90 per cent of women in the real estate industry have been sexually harassed in the line of duty,  a new report says. The Women in Real Estate Survey on Sexual Harassment shows 92.2 per cent of the respondents have experienced sexual harassment while 82.4 per cent have witnessed the crime happening. "Ninety per cent of the respondents have suffered sexual harassment that is verbal in nature. The second most common form of sexual abuse, according to the responses received, is physical sexual harassment," the report says. The survey was through questionnaires sent out to 350 respondents via Google forms. It describes sexual harassment as the unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature which makes a person feel offended, humiliated and or intimidated. It can be patting, pinching, stroking, kissing, hugging, fondling or inappropriate touching. Verbally, it can be unwanted sexual comments and jokes, repeated and unwelcome sexual advances, including flirting. it also includes use of job-related threats or rewards to solicit sexual favours. Also included in the category are unwelcome graphic comments about a person’s body, catcalling or whistling and yelling sexually suggestive comments. Nonverbal sexual harassment includes unwelcome gestures of a sexual nature, indecent exposure, unwelcome display and or sharing of sexually explicit pictures and objects. Some 60.8 per cent of the respondents reported having experienced some form of sexual harassment at the workplace while 41.2 per cent were harassed at school. Other women reported being harassed at construction sites (39.2 per cent), 23.5 per cent at home and in the streets, 3.9 per cent in restaurants, two per cent in swimming pools and church. "Some 33.3 per cent reported having been sexually harassed by their bosses, 31.4 per cent by their teachers and 64.7 per cent by their colleagues and fellow students," the report says. On how frequent the harassment occurred, 33.3 per cent said three on a scale of one to five while 21.6 per cent said four times. While 49 per cent of the respondents told the offender to stop, 39.2 per cent told someone while 27.5 per cent took no action. "Another 27.5 per cent tried to physically defend themselves, 5.9 per cent reported to the management, and 3.9 per cent reported to authorities," the findings show. However, only 12.9 per cent of the reported cases were acted upon, while offenders of 21.3 per cent of the cases were never brought to justice. Most of the victims suffered a high emotional impact, with 33.3 per cent experiencing diminished confidence and 27.3 per cent living in fear within their environment. They also expressed feeling unsafe at the workplace and in school, and reduced self-esteem. The report said despite the increased awareness of sexual harassment globally, there is still a long way to go in terms of how it is perceived, how victims and cases are treated and the education offered to the public on sexual harassment. "Therapy and physical treatment must be provided to the victims to help them deal with the physical and emotional trauma experienced as a result of sexual harassment," the report recommends. The report also recommended strict policies defining sexual harassment with instructions on actions to be taken and use of social media and the curriculum to create awareness on sexual harassment. "Sex education must be included in the school syllabus and awareness on sexual harassment training must be incorporated as an obligation in the workplace. In addition, creating a culture of respect and zero-tolerance for sexual harassment could help curb the progress of sexual harassment cases in the industry."  Edited by P.O