Back in 2015, Kenya was the first country where Eskimi started its continuous growth to African and Asian regions with the new product. It was the launch of the Demand Side Platform (DSP) that marked the entry into the market and in 2018 the Supply Side Platform (SSP) was introduced. These steps also marked the milestone in Eskimi evolution: the company stepped into the market of programmatic advertising. Since then, Eskimi has significantly expanded and reached impressive metrics, including the reach of 1,5 billion consumers worldwide. Being a part of the Kenyan market for already six years, Eskimi is a local—and loyal—partner here. The company is proud of having started its DSP in Kenya: it gained the first lessons and valuable experience there. Eskimi is happy to collaborate and to be a part of the local market: being a local (and super creative) player, the company helps brands face digital marketing challenges and solve them together. A new challenge International companies in Kenya are now facing a new difficulty. Since April, the government introduced a new tax for digital marketplaces that do not have an entity in Kenya. That includes (but does not limit to) search-engine services, streamed shows and music, downloadable digital content, subscription-based news. Digital advertising platforms are on the list as well. So the agencies that set up campaigns on global platforms now are facing a new 20% tax. The next step: accepting the local currency, no extra fee Eskimi is happy to announce that taking root in the Kenyan market is now bearing the fruits. The company can still help the brands in Kenya with no extra fee! Achieving the highest reach and engagement, raising brand awareness, conquering the market with the most creative ads—Eskimi continues helping the brands to achieve the victories. As a local partner, the company is able not to apply the new tax: from now, Eskimi is accepting payments in the local currency, Kenyan Shilling (KSh). The company is proud of taking this significant next step. Kenya is one of the most important markets for Eskimi, and the company is glad to show this sign of loyalty. Eskimi appreciates the trust of local clients and partners and is happy to assist them in reaching their marketing goals in current and future campaigns.