When Betty Kyallo launched her salon Flair last week, her younger sister Mercy Kyallo was missing and also did not post anything about the highly publicised event. This left many with question marks, and speaking to Word Is, Mercy said she was there in spirit. "There is so much help you can give especially inside the family dynamic that is not in public. When the right time comes, I will give my support," she said. "But I was there in spirit and we have walked together since the journey began." On whether the two are in good terms, Mercy said Betty is her sister. "Sisters go through highs and lows just like friends. That doesn't matter. People also go through their times and tides. Munajua tu kupenya maisha pamoja as a family," she said. "We fight and get back to each other like any siblings in this country. The same way I think, wakosanao ndio wapendanao." Before the relaunch of Flair, Betty held a birthday party for her daughter Ivanna, where she invited ex-husband Dennis Okari. Her sister Mercy also did not attend. Asked why, she said, “I was not able to come but at the same time support is given and support is shown in so many different ways especially in the family. "I know our lives are very public and there is so much that goes on away from the public eye and people never know.” She opened up about her relationship with her ex-brother-in-law, Dennis Okari, after calling out Okari over being an absentee dad early this year. “I’m not one to mince my words especially when I feel a type of way. I will always protect my family and friends. I was giving it straight at the time. And it is not personal," she said. She was referring to defending Betty Kyallo from Ken Mijungu’s claims that she prevented Okari from seeing his sick child. Mercy went on to say that since that very public debacle, things have been resolved between the warring parties. “Things are good and that is the thing with life, it’s ups and downs. Every family goes through all these kinds of ups and downs," she said. "The good thing with family is that you always find a way to hold each other’s hands. Forgive each other and cry with each other and encourage one another.” Mercy said she is happy to see him in their lives and the life of his child and it is so encouraging.