Flooding is likely to occur in low lying areas and along river basins in the Lake Victoria and the Coastal regions, the Meteorological Department has warned. The July weather outlook indicates this will be a wetter than usual month as some places across the country are expected to get rains. The forecast also showed that landslides and mudslides may also occur in the hilly areas of the highlands west of the Rift Valley and the Central highlands. “This is particularly due to the fact that the soils are still saturated and the rivers and dam levels are still high,” the forecast said. Counties in the Lake Victoria Basin Region, Highlands West of the Rift Valley, North, Central and Southern Rift Valley, the northern coastal strip as well as the Northwestern parts of the country are likely to experience enhanced rainfall. The counties include Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru, Narok. Others likely to receive rains are Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma, Busia, Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu, Kwale, Nairobi, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu and Tharaka Nithi. Met director Stella Aura said the July weather could also cause an increase in cases of respiratory diseases. Fog formation could pose a danger to motorists due to low visibility. “In areas such as Nairobi, the Highlands East of the Rift Valley, the Central and South Rift Valley and some parts of the Highlands West of the Rift Valley, cases of respiratory diseases like asthma, pneumonia, flu and common colds are likely to increase due to the expected cool or cold conditions,” she said. People are advised to wear warm clothes and follow advice from health authorities. “Vector-borne diseases such as malaria, other diseases such as cholera also are likely to increase in the Lake Victoria Basin region as well as parts of the highlands West of Rift Valley due to the conducive temperatures that favour their spread. “During chilly days, jikos in poorly ventilated houses should be avoided as burning charcoal produces carbon monoxide gas that is lethal when inhaled,” she said. The Met director advised motorists to be careful especially while driving along the Nairobi-Naivasha highway and particularly on the Kikuyu-Kinungi stretch due to fog formation. Fog is also likely to occasionally lead to disruption of operations at the airports. Aura said the water levels in the dams across the country are expected to remain high during this period. “The expected near average to above-average rainfall over the western part of the country is likely to result in the availability of water for general use as well as for energy production,” Aura said. The public should take advantage of the rains to plant trees, Aura said.  (edited by o. owino)