Insecurity has been cited as the major reason for the delay in the completion of the Lamu-Garsen road. The project was planned for completion in August this year. The Kenya National Highways Authority (Kenha) had assured that the 132-kilometre road, whose construction started in February 2017, would be completed in time. However, the progress has been extremely slow, with the current works rate being 57 per cent. The Sh10.8 billion project is undertaken by the H-Young East Africa Limited Construction Company in collaboration with the GIBB Africa Limited. Initially, it was to be completed by December 2019. However, during an inspection tour in April 2019, Kenha Board of Directors chairperson Erastus Mwongera announced that the completion date had been pushed to August, citing frequent attacks and the presence of al Shabaab in the area. The project entails the upgrade of the 113km Garsen-Witu-Lamu road and an additional 19km of the Mkunumbi-Mpeketoni loop road — all of which are upgraded to international trunk roads of bitumen standards. Speaking on Monday, Kenha assistant director and head of communications Charles Njogu said the road is faced with unique challenges, including insecurity caused by al Shabaab militants, a situation that has hampered progress. He said as such, the completion of the road greatly hinges on the state of security for those undertaking the works and many other factors. “We shall advise on the completion date in due course and if there is need for an extension, the engineers will review and advise accordingly. Let’s appreciate that the road is faced with unique challenges that must equally be approached uniquely,” Njogu said. The road is considered a major infrastructural component needed to open up Lamu for trade, business and industrial opportunities. Lamu is the source of the Sh2.5 trillion Lapsset project and the road is expected to provide easy access to its port. The road is also expected to boost security for travellers. This year, there have been at least two attempted attacks by al Shabaab militants on the construction camp located in Milihoi area. Milihoi, which lies along the Lamu-Garsen road, is a terror hotspot. On March 21, KDF officers repulsed an attempted breach by a group of more than 10 suspected Shabaab militants who tried to force their way into the camp at around 9am. A similar attempt had been made earlier on February 9 by about four heavily armed terrorists who tried to gain entry into the camp but were thwarted by soldiers. There were no casualties but an excavator belonging to the company and a lorry that was transporting cement to the new Lapsset site from Mombasa were torched by the militants. The drivers of the two vehicles escaped unhurt. 