Interior PS Karanja Kibicho inspected progress of the Sh7.3 billion Galana-Kulalu project on Wednesday. The PS, who was accompanied by other government officials including National Irrigation Authority officials, said that the project on 10,000 acres is 85 per cent complete. The National Irrigation Authority (NIA) is now seeking Sh600 million from the government to complete the remaining 15%. The PS said that the project which incorporates a drip irrigation system for production of maize and other high-value crops like bananas and mangoes was progressing well. He said the project, in Kilifi and Tana River counties, will be subjected to a viability test before handover to the private sector. “This fact-finding mission has allowed us to evaluate the viability of this project and whether it’s suitable for continuation or not. Of the 10,000acres, 5, 200 acres are already in use. But at full utilisation, the water from Tana River can sustain 20,000 acres,” he said. The visit to the farm comes a day after President Uhuru Kenyatta told the Executive that his administration will focus on the implementation and completion of the ongoing projects during the 2020/2021 financial year. Uhuru told CSs, CASs and the PSs on Tuesday during the virtual meeting that no new projects will be launched except with his express authority. Galana Kulalu farm is a food security project sitting on Kilifi and Tana River counties. The farm is a key project in boosting Uhuru’s Big Four Agenda, which includes Affordable Housing, Manufacturing, Universal Healthcare and Food Security and Nutrition. Through Food Security and Nutrition, the government is aspiring to reduce food insecurity in the country by 50 per cent and reduce the cost of food by 47 per cent. It is also targeting a 43 per cent increase in average daily income of farmers as well as reducing malnutrition among children below 5 years by 27 per cent. ODM leader Raila Odinga had earlier toured the farm. The National Irrigation Board took over the failed Galana Kulalu 'model farm' and food security scheme. The irrigation project was a Jubilee administration flagship project but it has been considered to be a white elephant.