Kirinyaga Woman Representative Purity Ngirici has dismissed as unprocedural her removal as the chairperson of a women's parliamentarians association. Some 36 Kenya Women Parliamentary Association (Kewopa) members on Tuesday proposed by acclamation that Kiambu Woman Representative Gathoni Wamuchoma takes over from the Kirinyaga politician. They accused Ngirici of poor leadership and failure to champion gender issues, among them the alarming cases of teenage pregnancies. The MPs said Kewopa had remained silent on issues involving women's daily activities. The development has birthed a power tussle at the group with the embattled chair saying she will stay put until the procedure is followed – having not resigned. The motivation for her removal is unclear as the association's constitution says the chairperson holds the seat for five years. However, it is likely to be associated with Ngirici’s recent stance on the bid by Kirinyaga MCAs to impeach Governor Anne Waiguru. The women legislators denied any political link even as fingers were pointed at forces within the national government. Ngirici, in an interview with the Star, dismissed the purported change saying the meeting which made the decision was not properly convened. She claimed the team that removed her did not have the signatures and there was no letter from the secretary of the executive committee to that effect. According to her, the association’s executive has 13 members, hence “they should have a minimum of nine to compose quorum.” “They can remove me when they want to but they need to call a meeting. There must be a notice of seven days. They must invite every member. There should be two-thirds, not signatures,” the MP said. It was her view that those purporting to have removed her cannot take powers of the secretariat, which must be invited to meetings to take minutes. "This is just a story. Let us follow the procedure,” she insisted adding: “They should call the meeting. Give notice of seven days. Let the handover be done properly. “Wamuchomba should follow the procedure. I have no problem with her taking over. Right now I am too preoccupied with Covid-19 response. I have not resigned.” But Kewopa vice-chair Rosa Buyu (Kisumu Woman Representative) defended the process, saying the change was above board and in accordance with the association’s constitution. Buyu said members were notified on June 22 and 65 out of 97 signed the petition for Ngirici’s removal. “In today’s (Tuesday) meeting, we had 36 members. The constitution says one third, which is 33. The signatures were of representatives of National Assembly and the Senate,” she said. “We followed the constitution. Leadership is service and people who give you opportunity to serve them can take away the opportunity when they feel you are not serving them well.” The Kewopa constitution says that the recommendation to expel a member from the committee shall be supported by signatures of not less than two thirds of members. “…and if the general meeting of the society shall resolve by a three quarters majority of all the members that such a member should be expelled.” The document further says that a member should be expelled on the grounds that her conduct has adversely affected the reputation or dignity of the society, or that she has contravened any of the provisions of the constitution. “The decision to suspend a member from her membership shall be in writing and shall be signed by at least two thirds of all the executive committee members,” the constitution states.  - mwaniki fm