Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has announced that 20 doctors from Cuba are set to arrive in Nairobi tonight. Kagwe said that the doctors will be stationed at the Kenyatta University. The CS said the medics will be in the country for six months to help manage the Covid-19 pandemic. "The said the doctors will be stationed at Kenyatta University Hospital for 6 months to help manage the Covid-19 pandemic," Kagwe said. Last month, the government renewed the Kenya-Cuba doctors deal. According to the MoU, the ministry will pay the doctors’ salaries, while the counties will cater for their accommodation, ground transport and other work-related expenses. The CS said during the renewed period, the ministry will be reviewing the specialisation mix to respond to the health needs within the counties. The initial MoU stated that the specialists would work for two years, while 50 Kenyan doctors train in Cuba for two years. The MoU obligates the ministry to ensure the specialists are paid their salaries by the tenth day of every month, to pay for their flights to Kenya and back to Cuba during annual leaves and final departure. Kagwe spoke on Thursday in Murang'a where he was assessing the county's Covid-19 level of preparedness. The CS said he was satisfied with the progress made by Murang'a County. "So far 349 isolation beds and 35 ICU beds are in place in various facilities across the county," Kagwe said. He added that the county has set up an isolation centre and each sub-county has been provided with a vehicle. Kagwe added that the government recognises the contribution of the Catholic Church in the health system. "I urge county government to explore partnerships with faith-based organizations and other stakeholders with expertise and technology that may be lacking in our public health facilities to be utilized for the benefit of our people," he said. Kenya on Friday recorded 389 new cases of Covid-19, raising the country's total confirmed cases to 12, 062, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has confirmed. This is out of 3, 545 samples that were tested in the last 24 hours as the cumulative samples tested so far rose to 233, 641. Of the cases 385 are Kenyans while four are foreigners. 260 of the cases are male while 129 are female as the trend of men recording the highest number of infections continue.