Harambee Stars head coach Francis Kimanzi hailed Kenyan international Michael Olunga after he registered his first hat-trick in the J-1 league yesterday. Olunga put in a 'Man of the Match' performance to aid his club Kashiwa Reysol who were promoted from the J-2 league thrash Vegalta Sandai 5-1 to move to 12th on the log and nine points shy of league leaders Kawasaki Frontale The former Tusker, Thinka United and Gor Mahia player netted his first goal in the 40th minute and would add his second for the day in the 58th minute. He completed his hat-trick in the 73rd minute to take home the match day ball as well as atone for his missed spot kick in the 61st minute. The superb performance by the Stars forward saw him take his tally to eight goals in seven matches and leads the scoring charts. Olunga had found life in the top flight rather tough at the beginning—enduring  a three-match goal drought. He, however, found his scoring boots after the slow start and is already being tipped to scoop the 'Golden Boot' should he keep the fire burning. The towering goal poacher took to his official twitter account to celebrate the good day in office."God's favour, one more for keeps (match day ball), thank you for the support," he tweeted. Olunga finished as the second best goal scorer last season with 26 goals, a performance which saw his side promoted to the elite league. Kimanzi hailed Olunga for keeping fit the time football was suspended and finding his scoring instincts after a slow start. "Scoring eight goals which include a hat-trick in seven matches in your first season in the top flight is not a mean feat. "He has worked hard to prove himself in a foreign land and I can only wish him an injury-free career. "It shows he also worked hard when sporting activities were suspended for he did not shed off his scoring form. "I am also impressed with other Stars players who have been doing well from the time various leagues across the world resumed," said the former Mathare United tactician In the meantime, Kimanzi called upon the forward to work harder for him to land more offers from the highly-rated leagues. Prior to making his way to Japan, Olunga had plied his trade in the Spanish La Liga with Girona albeit on loan from Guizhou Zhicheng. "For a player to play in a bigger league, he must be a top player and Olunga is on course to achieve it," he said.