President Uhuru Kenyatta has said that no one, including  politicians, will be spared if found flouting Covid-19 mitigation rules. Speaking during his State Address on the Coronavirus Pandemic on Monday, Uhuru said status and rank is no excuse to defy any law. "Forthwith, Inspector General of police shall ensure that his officers spares no mheshimiwa, no individual irregardless of social status or rank who is either out after curfew without being an essential worker or who flouts health protocols that have been set up," he said. "The rules are for all of us and rank or status does not exempt anyone from them." Uhuru directed IG Hillary Mutyambai to report any breach to Interior CS Fred Matiang'i. Uhuru stressed that the national government administration officers and the national police service will strictly enforce Ministry of Health protocols on public gatherings, and particularly funerals. Further, he said officers will be held liable for areas under their jurisdiction where a breach of guidelines is reported. "...Those are the people who have interpreted the de-escalation of the measures as a green light to pay no heed to the guidance by our health authorities. Their reckless actions are endangering those around them, and our whole country. I must remind Kenyans that the Government cannot police the morality of its citizens," he said. The Head of State reiterated that all Kenyans especially elected leaders have to step up to being responsible. He warned that he  would not hesitate to re-escalate guidelines again if reckless behavior is widespread. Meanwhile, he suspended selling sale of alcohol in restaurants and eateries for the next 30 days, effective midnight on Monday. Uhuru said all bars will be closed indefinitely, adding that those that don't adhere will have their licences permanently withdrawn. "Licenses of bars will be withdrawn permanently if found operating," Uhuru said. "All the measures that I will be announcing shall be applied to all citizens regardless of their social standing," he said.