Gor Mahia tactician Steve Polack has revealed his dream of coaching the national team, Harambee Stars in future if offered the chance. The coveted Harambee Stars job has in the past attracted top coaches in the likes of Belgian Adel Amrouche, Frenchman Sebastien Migne, the late Reinhardt Fabisch (Germany) and Bobby Williamson (Scotland) among others. Speaking in Nairobi, the K’Ogalo coach said he has always had a burning desire of leading the national team, which is no doubt the ‘pinnacle of coaching after club football’. Polack, who took over at Gor last year after a stint in Ghana, is yet to land a national team job in his long-standing football career. Having already taken some impressive scalps for the Kenyan champions, Polack said it is a dream for every coach to qualify a national team to the World Cup and that’s what he would want to achieve in the long run. In the short term, he said he is committed to sustain high quality football at Gor and win more trophies. “If an opportunity for coaching Harambee Stars presented itself or in the event the job gets advertised, I would definitely put in my CV for it. Who knows? I many be the one to take Harambee Stars to the World Cup. It’s has always been my dream to take a team to the World Cup and I’m 100 percent sure it’s not going to happen outside Africa,” he said. Asked about his honest opinion on the calibre of KPL coaches, Polack went on: “I respect all coaches in Premier League because our objective is the same—to win matches.” The Gor tactician was born in Birmingham, England though he spent the better part of his career in Finland where he also holds citizenship. He played football as a defender for many years as an amateur although he was balancing that with many jobs on the sides. Polack relocated to Finland to pursue his dream as a professional footballer for a period spanning 14 years until 1998 when he hanged his boots at an age of 37. He played for FC Inter Turku who have won the league title once, two Finnish Cups and one League Cup. After years in Finish football, Polack moved to African continent in 2007 and his first stop was Kumasi, Ghana where he did two seasons with King Feisal Babes FC. In 2011, Pollock joined Berekum Chelsea FC for a year, then returned to do a bit more coaching in Finland before returning to Ghana in 2017. Polack linked up with Ghanaian giants Asante Kotoko, but what he anticipated to be a flowery and successful stint in Ghana’s capital ended up in a sad divorce, just a year into the marriage. Polack has been riding high here in Kenya and became the first coach to win the Fidelity Insurance SJAK Coach of the Month Award thrice in a single season.