I believe that you can win at work. But do you believe it? Do you know how to win at work? If you are not sure, do not worry. Here are five winning strategies. Have a Great Attitude: Your attitude at work should scream: “you can count on me.” The workplace is a space where people come to solve problems – not just to get a paycheck. So, one way your value is measured is how well you play your role in delivering solutions. Can your employers, colleagues, and customers count on you? Do you have an attitude that is always willing to help others? If you do not, winning is unlikely. Learn from Your Environment: Those who skillfully listen and learn from their environment, win. Your ability to rightly discern how your environment works helps you craft a winning strategy. By discernment, I mean your capacity to understand how your environment works with the aim of adding value massively. Yes, there is always politics – do not be naïve. However, politics should not take centre stage. You are at work to add value, not play politics only. So, learn from your environment and do your best. Learn from Your Mistakes: Winners know how to turn around their mistakes – they know how to use mistakes to their advantage. Mistakes are information for improvement. Winners use mistakes to grow their greatness and influence. How? They study their mistakes, learn from them, and craft new strategies based on lessons learned. The speed at which you learn from your mistakes determines the speed at which you win at work. Be Change Friendly: Now, every business must deal with massive global changes, size irrespective. Gone are the days when global changes directly affected only multinationals. Currently, the impact is felt in every business. Therefore, you must have a healthy attitude to change, or else, winning at work could prove difficult. We live in an era of mind boggling changes – for instance, most people never imagined a global pandemic. It helps to be flexible and mentally poised for changes if you want to win. 