A Senate committee on Wednesday put Kisii Governor James Ongwae on the spot over dismissal collection of revenue by his administration. According to a report by the Auditor General, Ongwae’s administration collected Sh553.38 million against a target of Sh725 million in 2016-17. The low collection, according to the report, hurt development projects that were initiated during the year. “No explanation has been given for the poor revenue collection, which suggests there was revenue leakage in the system or unrealistic targets set,” the report reads. Appearing before the Senate County Public Accounts and Investments Committee on Wednesday, Ongwae defended his administration and blamed numerous court cases for failure to meet the target. “This under-collection was attributed to a court ruling exempting some professionals from being levied single business permits. This greatly affected the amount collected,” he said. The county chief added that another court order barred the county government from imposing any levy on cess on agricultural produce, hence hurting collection. He also blamed unfavourable weather for the problems. “Excess rains throughout the year affected market operations, hence affecting the collection of market trade fees,” he said. However, the response did not convince the panel members who sought to know whether the county government conducts public participation before imposing taxes and other levies. “This is a huge and significant under-collection. You mean business during the year was that bad that you miss the target by Sh191 million?” Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei posed. Narok Senator Ledama Ole Kina sought to know whether the governor and his administration plan to settle the disputes out of court. “The more these cases drag in court, the more the county loses revenue and residents continue to suffer. Are you planning to employ other dispute resolution mechanisms outside court?” Ole Kina asked. The governor submitted that he has engaged the parties to resolve the matter out of court to enable the county to continue collecting revenue. In addition, he told the committee chaired by Kisii Senator Sam Ongeri that his administration has improved public participation to minimise or avoid court cases arising from the implementation of finance acts. “We have developed markets and improved roads network to create an environment conducive to trading, and increased access to markets,” he said. "More revenue streams have been automated including the introduction of USSD and M-Pesa pay bill.” In their budget implementation reports, Controller of Budget Margaret Nyakang'o and her predecessor blamed low revenue collections in most counties for over-reliance on the Exchequer. The overreliance, according to the report, has hurt development in counties as most projects stall due late disbursements by the National Treasury. 