 Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi plans to visit Central Kenya to popularise his 2022 presidential ambitions. Mudavadi hosted close to 20 ward representatives from Nyeri county Wednesday. The ward reps assured Mudavadi that they are ready to support his presidential bid. “He has been meeting politicians, opinion leaders and various groups from Central Kenya at his offices in the last one month and is now planning to go to the region to sell his candidature,” Kibisu Kabatesi, his spokesman, told the star. Mudavadi has already met Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua and former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth. The meeting with the two on May 28 was also attended by Sally Kosgey, who served as head of Public Service during former President Daniel Moi's regime. After meeting Mudavadi, Karua's hinted at a possible alliance bringing together her Narc Kenya, ANC and other parties ahead of the 2022 General Election. Karua said she is in talks with Mudavadi and other like-minded people to push for a united country and put the country on the path of economic development. Political analyst Advice Mundalo said Mudavadi is perceived as the leader who has great potential to rise to power but must be more aggressive. “He must rework his strategy and come out more as a fighter for the throne, not a worthy king awaiting external endorsement,” Mundalo said. Kabatesi said Mudavadi has been laying the ground for his trips to Central Kenya during meetings with leaders from the region. “He has been laying the ground for an expansive network in Central Kenya. A network which will work with him when he starts visiting Central Kenya,” he added. Mudavadi's tour of Central will dispel the notion that his campaigns are focused on his western region backyard, he said. “Those saying he is western every weekend are wrong. He has been there only twice during the pandemic period,” he added. Mudavadi put a statement on his Twitter about the meeting with leaders from Central. "I held a consultative meeting with representatives of the people from Nyeri county today. They shared a lot on issues affecting the people of Nyeri, especially in the area of tea and coffee farming," he said. (edited by o. owino)