Technology is supposed to enhance convenience, but that seems not to be the case in Kibera courts. A complainant travelled all the way from Kitale after confirming that his case was due for mention on Wednesday, only to be told that it had been postponed. If that is the case then, the man told the court he did not have fare to go back home. "I came in a private car from Kitale. I can’t go back home as I cannot afford bus fare. I don't have money. I am ailing! My leg was just operated on the other day. I pray the case to proceed," he pleaded with the magistrate. The court prosecutor’s efforts to calm him down by informing him that the case was at the mention stage bore no fruits as the man insisted on the court raising his fare. The magistrate ordered he be given Sh5,000 to travel to  Kitale and back for his mention after he told court that Sh2,000 would get him home. But the question is, how many people are inconvenienced every other day? The Registrar needs to take this up.  **** A silent and hardworking court staffer and respected by many seems to have converted a Nairobi courtroom into his bedroom in the evening. "He always sleeps here, despite him getting a good salary. Maybe his pockets have a hole, you never know?” a mole who has been observing him told the Star. His colleagues wonder where he cooks his food from. he man is said to have refused a house offer granted to him by the courts. He also reportedly hasn’t gone home for years. What could be the problem here?  *** A Ugandan woman had some condition for her boyfriend before withdrawing an assault case against him. She told a Kibera magistrate that her boyfriend had to admit that he impregnated her for her to withdraw the assault charges. The pregnancy was the source of the conflict, as the boyfriends had denied responsibility. "Madam, I am pregnant and I came from Uganda. He got me pregnant. Tell him to accept me and take responsibility," she told court The magistrate, however, told her to concentrate on the main assault case and leave the pregnancy related issues. 