Police in Mavoko, Machakos county have launched investigations to establish the cause of death of two minors. This comes after the decomposing bodies of the two minors, a girl and a boy were discovered inside a vehicle at the Athi River police station. Sub county police commander Catherine Ringera said the bodies were discovered on Wednesday early morning inside the wreckage of the car. She said the car had been impounded and towed to the station after it was involved in a road accident in March. Speaking to the Star on phone, Ringera said the bodies were discovered by the owner of the vehicle who had come to collect and reported the matter to the officers. She said the parents of the deceased aged three and four had been searching for them after they went missing on June 11 and the matter had been reported at the same police station. They went missing from their KMC Estate on June 11 while playing outside their house. "A man came to the station to collect his vehicle today which had been lying at our yard since March after it was involved in a non injury road accident. That is when he found bodies of the two children aged 3 and half and 4 and half respectively, " she said. According to the OCPD, the vehicle was parked in the police yard and nobody noticed any foul smell. It is after he opened the boot of his car that he noted the strange ‘cargo’ covered in a black paper bag. The officers then opened the bag and found the two bodies. Homicide officers from The Department of Criminal Investigations in Nairobi were informed and came to inspect the bodies before  the parents were called to confirm. "The children came to be the ones who were reported missing at our station on 11th June 2020. Bodies were decomposed but their parents were able to identify them", she said. There was also no blood stains either on the minors’ clothes or in the vehicle. The bodies were moved to Chiromo mortuary awaiting post mortem. "Bodies are lying at Chiromo morgue awaiting post mortem. Matter under investigation by homicide team from Dci Nairobi", she noted.