Worst forms of child labour are widespread in the mining of murram, ballast, clay, quarry dust, sand and building stones in Kakamega, a survey by the county shows. Children are involved in extraction, processing and transport stages in artisanal small-scale mining of the low-value minerals, the study found. Some children also run errands, carry heavy equipment or materials, or deliver food and water to miners working deep within the mines. The baseline survey collected data on artisanal miners, mineral distribution, land degradation and rehabilitation in Kakamega county. The study, carried out on behalf of the county by Lakers Consultants in March, also found out that girls are often involved in domestic activities in and around mines. The boys, on the other hand, are more involved in extraction and processing. "Almost all work performed by children in artisanal and small-scale mining is hazardous and has characteristics that fit the definition of a “worst form of child labour” under ILO Convention No. 182 (International Labour Organization, 2005)," says the report. The mines' ownership is 76 per cent male and 24 per cent female. The survey says it is difficult to eliminate or limit the participation of children in the mining given it is family-run, informal and occurs in areas with high poverty levels. Some 56 per cent of the artisanal miners had primary level of education while 11 per cent have no formal education. Only 5 per cent had a college-level education. Many abandoned mines in the sites pose risk to lives in their localities. In some areas, serious degradation had occurred due to mining activities, the study found. The researchers said small-scale and artisanal miners are exploited by middlemen since they cannot directly access markets. They recommended that the county government supports the miners through training and provision of equipment. Authorities should also sensitise miners to practice safe, sustainable mining practices and measures to conserve the environment. The team urged the county government to attract investors into the mining sector through aggressive promotion, including an international investment conference. The study also wants cooperatives for miners, sand harvesters, brick makers formed to help them realise maximum benefits from their activities. (edited by o. owino)