Football Kenya Federation presidential aspirant Lodvick Aduda has rubbished reports suggesting that several candidates were mulling at forming a coalition to oust Nick Mwendwa. Aduda and three other aspirants were for the better part of Tuesday holed up in a city hotel, fueling speculations that that the widely rumoured coalition was in the offing. The three candidates who joined the Gor Chief Executive Officer in the meeting were Nicholas Musonye, Sammy Sholei and Twaha Mbarak. "We came up as concerned aspirants to make our joint statement regarding issues which touch on Kenyan football and elections. We were just representatives of the other aspirants who could not make it to the meeting. As far as I am concerned there are no discussions to form a coalition.Every candidate is running his own race," he said Meanwhile, despite parting ways with Wazito last week,DR Congo winger Piscas Kirenge has no intentions of exiting the Kenyan Premier League scene anytime soon. Kirenge lifted the lid on his intentions to remain in the local competition for two more seasons albeit with a different team. The former Sofapaka player who made his KPL debut in 2018 was among the 12 players axed at Wazito. The latter said the purge was triggered by the ravaging economic effects brought by coronavirus. Kirenge said he had made up his mind to seek another local club and score his long term goal of winning a silverware before leaving for another challenge. "I have been in Kenya for the last two years and it is my desire to sign off with at least a medal.I want to hang around for at least two more years to chase my dream before i  exit for another challenge.Even though my agent who is based in Sweden is yet to receive offers so far i am certain that i will get a new home before the new season starts," he said Apart from extending his stay in the KPL, Kirenge says he is raring to defy the odds and make his way to the national team 'Leopards'. He disclosed that he had featured in the junior sides with his last appearance with the U-23 coming in 2014 in Burundi. "It is my wish to advance to the senior team having played in the junior ones in the past years. We have good players but I believe I am talented enough to convince the technical bench to consider me for international assignments," he stated. 