The Health ministry has said the coronavirus has posed a big challenge to the uptake of HIV testing services. CAS Mercy Mwangangi on Friday said this is evident with low outpatient hosp[ital visits that have been witnessed across the country during this period. According to the CAS, the majority of Kenyans no longer visit health facilities for HIV testing services. She said there has been a drastic decline of those seeking these services between January and June. "The lowest uptake was noted between March and April 2020 where testing volumes reduced by 33 per cent," she said. Mwangangi said pre-Covid, month to month testing varied by about 15 per cent. "On the other hand, community testing decreased by 71 per cent while facility testing decreased by 28 per cent," she said. Mwangangi said there are 1.1 million people using ARVs across the country, which is a remnarkable achievement and a testimony to the strength and resilience to the country's HIV management programme. "Today over 96 per cent of people who know their HIV positive status are on life saving treatment. More than 90 per cent of those on treatment have controlled the HIV virus and therefore pose very low risk of transmission," she said. She added, "This is further evidenced by the decrease of new HIV infections to less than 36,000 in 2018, a stark reduction from 106,000 in 2012. With these notable outcomes, Kenya is well on its way to achieving epidemic control". Mwangangi said despite the havoc wreaked by the coronavirus, antenatal care attendance and testing has not been impacted. She said there has been an upward trend in the number of clients newly enrolled on ARVs between 2018 and 2019. She said however the disease resulted in  a tremendous decline in enrollment. She said despite the prevailing circumstances of Covid-19, laboratory testing for HIV has not ceased and it is being conducted with initial PCR tests with results being relayed to the requesting facilities. "We are fearful that the pandemic may hamper access to ARVs hence those who are already on treatment may be greatly affected," she said.