@alalmaurice A female Kisumu police officer has been arrested after she allegedly shot her husband with an AK-47, grazing his head, because he didn't pick her calls and also gave the househelp Sh50 for lunch. The suspect Maureen Awuor allegedly shot Victor  Odhiambo Onunga at their house at Dago area in Nyalenda, Kisumu East subcounty. She found him watching television and they quarrelled after she accused him of not answering her calls and giving the househelp Sh5o for lunch without asking her. The officer is based at Kasagam police station. The shooting occurred on Sunday night at about 8pm, about a kilometre from the police station. The victim, 28-year-old Odhiambo, is a clinical officer at Milimani Hospital in Kisumu. He was rushed by neighbours to the Kisumu county hospital where he was treated and discharged in fair condition. Awuor is attached to the Critical Infrastructure Protection Unit (CIPU) headquarters in Kisumu East. She returned to their rental house from her sentry duty post at the DCC’s office at Kasagam and found Odhiambo watching television, the police report said. “She stood at the door while armed with her official AK-47 rifle. She told Odhiambo she was going to kill him and kill herself, she cocked the gun, shot at him twice and injured him on right side of the head above the ear,” the report read. The suspect allegedly threatened the neighbours who rushed to find out what was happening by firing another shot at them. Awuor then disappeared after returning the firearm to a fellow officer at the station. County police commander Ranson Lolmodoni said the suspect is being held at Kondele police station. He said she would be charged with attempted murder. The motive of the attack was a domestic quarrel after she complained that Odhiambo was not picking her calls, he said. She also accused him of giving the househelp Sh50 for lunch without consulting her, the police comander said. The two have been together for three years and have a one-year-old son, the police report reads. The scene was visited by Kasagam OCS, Kisumu East DCI boss Thomas Simbiri, and processed by crime  officers. The firearm is being kept as an exhibit while DCI investigates. (Edited by V. Graham) 