Top flight club chairmen yesterday voted in the quintet of Dan Shikanda, Robert Maoga,Daniel Aduda,Erick Oloo and Ken Ochieng to oversee the transition of the c Kenyan Premier League to the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Premier League. The five serve as AFC Leopards, Kariobangi Sharks, Tusker, Ulinzi Stars and Zoo FC club chairmen respectively. The committee was mandated to draft proposals on how the FKF Premier League  will be run post KPL, including the possibility of clubs voting for an independent chairman to lead the new league body. They will also be tasked with advising the federation on the way forward as the KPL contract is set to expire in September. The five were endorsed by ten clubs out the 17 in a virtual meeting attended by 16 KPL chairmen alongside FKF President Nick Mwendwa. Mathare United chairman Bob Munro, Homeboyz's Cleophas Shimanyula, Nzoia's Evance Kadenge, Bandari's Edward Oduor and a Wazito representative who stood in for Ricardo Badoer voted against them. Gor Mahia chairman Ambrose Rachier, who is the current KPL chairman, watched the unfolding events from the fence while Sofapaka's Elly Kalekwa did not honour the invitation. Besides electing the transitional committee,the club bosses were briefed on the new deal between FKF and Betking, who are set to bankroll the top flight starting next season till 2025 to a tune of Sh 1.2 billion. The bookmaker will also be sponsoring the Division One League for the next five years. Meanwhile,the clubs which gave the deal a clean bill of health, are set to receive Sh 500, 000 this Friday according to one of the chairmen who attended the meeting . He said the betting firm had already wired Sh 12 million into FKF accounts and it was just a matter of time before money trickled down to the clubs. The Nigerian firm is expected to wire Sh75 million to FKF accounts a month to the start of the new season and a similar amount before the end of the third month of the season. Clubs will also enjoy the same windfall before the end of the sixth month of the season. “After yesterday meeting, FKF send the undertaking to clubs and those who will sign will get half a million possibly by Friday. The partner has already deposited 12 million to FKF and the federation is on course to clear with the agent and part with legal fees,” he disclosed.