Eden Hazard has struggled to deal with the weight of the Real Madrid shirt following his high-profile move from Chelsea, former Real manager Fabio Capello has said. Hazard joined the Spanish club from Chelsea on a five-year contract for a reported 100 million euros ($116.54 million) ahead of the 2019-20 season. The Belgium international inspired Chelsea to two Premier League trophies during his time at Stamford Bridge but has failed to hit similar heights in Spain, with injuries limiting him to 21 appearances in all competitions this season. “He hasn’t been the player he was at Chelsea and he was injured for a long time, he hasn’t adapted,” Capello told Marca. “I’ve always thought of him as a great player but the Real shirt weighs heavily and Hazard has sunk this year. It’s clear that he’ll be better next season,” added the Italian, who led Real to two La Liga titles. With Hazard struggling for form, the onus was on Karim Benzema to shoulder the goal-scoring responsibilities and the French striker enjoyed one of the best seasons of his career, netting 21 league goals and firing Real to a record-extending 34th La Liga crown. “He’s become a benchmark for Real. He has taken on responsibility that he didn’t have when he played with Cristiano Ronaldo, he has a nose for goal and he’s shown it,” added former England coach Capello. Elsewhere, Brighton are close to signing Liverpool midfielder Adam Lallana on a free transfer. Lallana’s deal with the Premier League champions expires at the end of this season and he has been in talks over a three-year contract with the Seagulls. The 32-year-old has made 22 appearances for the Reds in 2019-20, though he has started only three league games and not been involved since the restart. Lallana won the last of his 34 England caps against Italy in March 2018. Liverpool signed Lallana from Southampton for £25m in July 2014. He has won the Premier League, the Champions League, the Fifa Club World Cup and the Uefa Super Cup in his six-year spell at Anfield.