A court will next week rule on whether a German charged with several counts of defilement and child pornography will be released on bail. Lawyer John Swaka representing Thomas Scheller requested the court to release him on bail, arguing that he was sickly and old. “My client is 71 years and vulnerable to Covid-19 virus, being in custody and basing on the affidavit, the court should not be swayed to deny him bail”, Swaka said. He said Scheller needed to attend to medication as it was almost three months he had been in custody. The prosecution, however, opposed the application stating that the case against Scheller was a serious offence and he was a flight risk if released on bail or bond. The prosecution argued that they were ready for a hearing and all witnesses were available. Senior resident magistrate Caroline Muthoni said she had received a report from the Children's Department as requested by the court and needed time to go through it before making a ruling. The case will be mentioned on July 13. In June, the magistrate detained the accused for more days pending investigations. The court’s decision came despite the prosecution seeking to detain Scheller for 60 days, a period the magistrate referred to as too long. On May 26, Scheller was charged with the offences in addition to being in Kenya illegally and child trafficking. It is alleged that between March and April at Nyalenda in Kisumu Central, he defiled a 13-year-old child. He was also charged with two counts of showing a pornographic video to boys. “On dates between the months of March and April at Nyalenda in Kisumu, he unlawfully and intentionally exposed a child aged 13 years to an indecent audiovisual,” the charge sheet reads. It is alleged that he recruited, transported and harboured a 13-year-old child for purposes of exploitation by means of fraud. Scheller was charged with three counts of defiling three minors, the youngest being 10, by sodomising them. He was also charged alternatively with committing an indecent act with a minor. Sheller denied all the seven counts. It was his argument that he wanted to help the child and the mother agreed but anything else was a lie. However, the state said the accused was a child molester and should not be released on bail because he was a foreigner without a valid permit to allow him to be in Kenya. Scheller was arrested on May 5 after the police had trailed him for months, documents show. It is alleged he escaped police in Kwale and fled to Kisumu where he committed the offences before he was arrested in Nairobi. Police said he was arrested outside the German Embassy in the company of one of the victims.  Edited by Henry Makori