The 2014 appointment of Jacob Ngwele as the Nairobi County Assembly clerk was above board and within the law, the anti-graft agency has concluded after a seven-month investigation. However, Ngwele should refund the allowances paid to him without the approval of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission says. Speaker Beatrice Elachi had written to the EACC asking the agency to investigate the appointment which, she said, was irregular. Further, Ngwele, according to her, drew higher allowances than attributable to his office between October 2018 and May 2019. The EACC established that between September 2015 and April 2019, Ngwele earned Sh1.23 million extraneous duty allowances at a monthly rate of Sh28,000 without the approval of the SRC. “To this end, therefore, we advise that all the extraneous allowances earned by Mr Ngwele without the approval of SRC should be recovered in full,” it says in a letter dated July 1. The EACC investigation showed that minutes of a Nairobi County Assembly Board meeting on June 10, 2014, resolved to absorb and confirm Ngwele as the county assembly clerk. This was informed by a Transition Authority letter Ref No. TA/8/48 of January 20, 2014. The investigation showed that a court had ruled in favour of the appointment of interim clerks by the TA, if the constitutional threshold of open advertisement, competitive recruitment, participation and inclusion of all competing persons was met. “Mr Ngwele further sued the County Assembly Service Board in 2014 regarding his employment and a consent order was recorded in court in respect to his employment and the matter settled,” the letter noted. The tussle between Ngwele and Elachi has lasted nearly nine months and has had adverse impact in the assembly. Last month, the Assembly Service Board advertised a vacancy in the office of the clerk, calling on the qualified public to apply. Elachi, who is also the board's chair, said the assembly has never recruited a substantive clerk since its inception in 2013. The June salaries of MCAs, assembly and ward staff were delayed due to the infighting between the offices of the speaker and the clerk. The delay was a result of Elachi challenging the restoration of Ngwele as a signatory to the assembly accounts. Last week, Employment and Labour and Relations Court judge Hellen Wasilwa ordered the Central Bank of Kenya to reinstate Sammy Kalundu Ndana and senior finance officer Paul  Kimani Wainaina as signatories to the county assembly exchequer accounts. Early this month, the County Assembly Service Board created two deputy clerk positions, one in charge of administration and the other of legislative services. The immediate acting clerk, Pauline Akuku, became deputy clerk in charge of administration. Elachi said the new positions will ensure the assembly operations will not stall "because of dispute with the holder of the position of the clerk". She said the process was spearheaded by the board through senior Public Service ministry and Strathmore University officials. Now, the assembly has 17 new senior officers. In November last year, the MCAs voted not to recognise Ngwele as the clerk and his name was revoked following the adoption of an ad-hoc committee report. They said Ngwele was “a stranger” in the house. But Solicitor General Kennedy Ogeto wrote to Elachi on December 27, 2019, reminding her that a court had reinstated Ngwele on October 30, 2019. He said the Employment and Labour Relations Court had on November 26, 2019, suspended the appointment of Monica Muthami or any other person as acting clerk. - mwaniki fm 