Senators, MPs and MCAs in North Rift will partner with governors and health officials to change residents' reckless behaviour and their disregard of the Covid-19 threat and containment rules. The political leaders will take to social media to deliver Covid-19 messages to sensitise supporters about the disease, prevention and protocols. Governors in the eight counties have endorsed the plan to partner with political leaders to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Only West Pokot and Samburu have not reported cases. "We have planned how we will engage political leaders because they have the capacity to help in community sensitisation and mobilisation," Dr Wilson Aruasa, CEO of the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital, said. Aruasa leads health experts to fight Covid-19. Governor Jackson Mandago of Uasin Gishu chairs Noreb. “This phase is about self-responsibility among residents to battle the spread of the virus. We can succeed through proper communication and sensitisation," Mandago said. President Uhuru Kenyatta has banned all public and other political gatherings but political leaders will engage the public through social media. The governors want political leaders to set good examples by wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and washing or sanitising their hands frequently. “If leaders can lead from the front by doing what is supposed to be done, then they will definitely influence their supporters to adhere to measures to control the spread of Covid-19," Dr Aruasa said. Some MPs had claimed the Covid-19 situation was being exaggerated and used as a political tool to fight Deputy President William Ruto. Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi early last month claimed the government was refusing to open up churches because some senior officials believed DP Ruto would use them to access the masses. All political leaders have agreed to partner in the war against the disease. The governors have been at the forefront battling to enforce the control measures but Mandago says it is now the responsibility of all Kenyans to fight the disease by observing protocols. Mandago said they would swiftly enforce strict control measures, especially the closure of bars and regulation of restaurants that have been blamed for the surge in positive cases. (Edited by V. Graham) 