The foreign quartet of Augustine Otu, Piscas Kirenge, Issifou Bourahana and Paul Acquah headline the 12-players who were yesterday released by Kenyan Premier League side, Wazito. The club’s chief executive officer, Dennis Gicheru, said the purge was triggered by the ravaging economic effects brought about by coronavirus. The duo of Otu (Liberian) and Bourahana (Togo) joined the club in January from Liberia Petroleum Refining Company (LPRC)  FC and Ethiopian-based St Georges FC respectively. Acquah (Ghana) was signed in January last year as the outfit shipped in experienced players in a bid to return to the elite league while Kirenge (DR Congo) joined in June 2018 from Sofapaka. Local players attached to the club who were freed include former Tusker winger Victor Ndinya, Harambee Stars trialist Teddy Osok, former Sony Sugar striker Derrick Otanga and the long-serving goalkeeper Steven Njung’e. The axe also fell on last season’s first choice custodian at the club, Kevin Omondi, who turned out for Sony Sugar before joining the Ricardo Bodoer-owned outfit. Gicheru, however, remained mum on the number of new players he intends to bring in ahead of their third season in the top flight. The club is reportedly eyeing the the trio of Benson Omalla, Fidel Origa and Maurice OJwang’ who featured for Western Stima last season. “It has become unsustainable to keep the foreign players at the club with the current tough economic times. We have laid off 12 players but we are yet to decide the number of new recruits. The technical bench has recommended names that should be pursued and hopefully,  we will complete their transfers when the window opens,” said the former skipper at the club. Meanwhile, Gicheru revealed that retired Kenyan international Fred Ambani will serve as the head coach after confirming the looming exit of Stewart Hall. Ambani, who guided the club to attain automatic promotion in the 2018-2019 season, returned to serve as Hall’s assistant in February. Wazito brought in the experienced British coach in November last year alongside Frank Ouna but the former, according to Gicheru, turned down a contract offer. The club was earlier rumoured to be courting former Bandari tactician Bernard Mwalala as Hall’s replacement but Gicheru said they will stick to the youthful Ambani. “Hall is also leaving and we thank him for his services. We were in talks with a number of coaches but Ambani will lead the technical bench going forward,” he stated.        