Two former employees of National Industrial Training Authority were on Wednesday charged with acquiring public property worth Sh1.6 million. Former CEO Francis Mindo and accountant Isaac Gwako pleaded not guilty before Anti-Corruption chief magistrate Douglas Ogoti. NITA board chairman Professor Thomas Ekamais, who did not plead to the charges, was expected in court but came after his co-accused had already pleaded. He is also accused of irregularly acquiring the public property valued at Sh1,681,534. Ekamais is accused that between July 2013 and February 2014 at the NITA offices, he acquired the property fraudulently. The professor allegedly acquired public property as allowances for meetings he did not attend and visits he did not make. In the second count, Ekamais is said to have given his principal a false document - a taxi expense form of Sh3,000 from Eldoret Airport to Kenmasa hotel. He will plead to charges of deceiving the principal contrary to the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act, 2003. On September 8, 2013 to September 20 that year at the NITA offices, Ekamais is also accused of giving a taxi receipt to the principal indicating Sh10,000 expenses from Eldoret to Nairobi. Ekamais is expected in court on July 29 to answer to the charges. Mindo has been charged with abuse of office contrary to the law. The court heard that between July 2013 and February 2014, he used his office to improperly confer a benefit of Sh1,314,618 as allowances to Ekamais by authorising payment without the requisite supporting documents. Gwako faced another charge of abuse of office. Within the same timeframe, he is accused of using his office to improperly confer a benefit of Sh1,681,534 as allowances to Ekamais by authorising payment without supporting documents. Through their lawyers William Oketch and Agnel Nadida, the suspects said they are old and vulnerable to Covid-19 infection thus they should be released on favourable bail. “Mindo is 67 years old and has been a public servant for 34 years and, therefore, the court should release him on favourable bond terms,” Oketch said. The prosecution did not oppose bail terms but urged the court to consider that graft offences are dragging the country behind. Magistrate Ogoti released the two on Sh150,000 bail each and directed the matter to be mentioned on July 29. Edited by R.Wamochie