They had thought the jobs would help improve their lives but the youths employed under the Kazi Mtaani programme are no longer so sure. Youth in Kwale say they risk contracting Covid-19 and other diseases as they go about their work for lack of adequate and proper safety equipment and tools. Their duties include disinfection, fumigation, clearing bushes and garbage collection, among others. The youth say they are sometimes forced to collect garbage with their bare hands. “Tools like rakes, wheelbarrows, gloves and gumboots were distributed but in limited numbers. Those who don’t have [them] pick trash using their hands...bear in mind disposed masks are among the dirt we collect,” Rashid Abdallah said. The youth say they are forced to improvise or bring tools from home. “If you don’t work because there are no rakes where will you get another job? So if you have something you can use, the better. If you don’t have like me, then you apply know-how to get the work done,” Abdallah said. He said they also face the risk of snakebites and getting cut by broken glass. Despite the challenges, however, the youth are grateful to have work. Meali Chalala says she used to wake up dreading the day ahead because of the strain involved in finding work. Now she is assured of a paying job for the next six months and for that, she is grateful. Phase two of Kazi Mtaani was launched recently by the national government targeting 3,488 jobless youth in Kwale. The first phase ended in June. Only 1,000 young people were hired in the first phase. In the second phase the programme was extended to all the four subcounties–Kinango, Msambweni, Lunga Lunga and Matuga. The youth have urged the government to increase their wages. The second batch earns Sh445 a day while the first earned Sh600. The second lot also works in two-week shifts to accommodate as many young people as possible. Mkulola Hassan said they will not be able to put aside much as a result. Kwale county commissioner Karuku Ngumo said they experienced some challenges during the first phase but they were well addressed. He said the county and national governments bought some tools and will deliver more as time goes by. He said the shortage will be addressed and urged the youth to be patient. “We admit cycle one had some hiccups but in the second phase we have solved all that and I don’t think we will have huge problems this phase,” Ngumo said. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya