A youth group in Githunguri, Kiambu county, has made an ICU bed using locally available materials. They use unutilised metals and wood from their homes. The group joins other Kenyans who have invented ventilators and electronic handwashing machines in the fight against the coronavirus. If the idea is adopted, it will help meet the government's directive that all counties set up 300-bed capacity facilities to deal with the coronavirus pandemic. According to the Council of Governors, only 15 counties have met the directive. “As the youth, we decided to put our minds together and came up with the idea of making ICU beds. The government directed that counties should have over 300 beds in their hospitals and we thought this was an opportunity since the beds are being imported and we have the ability to make them locally,” youth leader Eric Gathogo said on Sunday. He said they sought professional advice from an engineer who instructed them which metal, wood, screws, bolts and wire mesh to use. The engineer also gave them the schematic to build a standard recommended ICU bed. Paul Wangaruro, an engineer with Harpman Technology Africa, said the ICU beds are being made according to customer preference and will not be as expensive as the imported ones. “The bed that we have come up with is an electric ICU bed which has cost us almost Sh45,000 and we will sell it at around Sh60,000 due to labour and VAT. Buying a bed in China will cost the counties over Sh100,000,” he said. Wangaruro said the idea will create jobs for the youth who can build 10 beds in a day. “In this country we need the youth to be equipped with technical skills. The government should also equip the youth with the tools of trade so they can be employed and join in building the country in areas where technical skills are required,” he said. Group member Joseph Muhinja said all they need is the government's support to produce the beds. "We have the skills, brains and capacity to locally invent what we need. All we need is the government's support to make this a reality,” he said. Rich Kenyans are said to have installed ICU beds in their private residences following a surge in Covid-19 infection. The youth have also appealed to the county governments to invest in local inventions to support Kenyans and talent. Edited by A.N