City dwellers will soon be able to enjoy recreational facilities at the Michuki Memorial Park with restoration and rehabilitation works almost complete. The 26-acre park was handed to Kenya Forest Service in April, as one of the several green spaces in Nairobi that will now be under the central government. The Ministry of Environment in conjunction with Kenya Forest Service, the National Environmental Management Authority, the Kenya Forestry Research Institute, the National Museums of Kenya and the Nairobi Metropolitan Service have been undertaking the rehabilitation works at the park.  Last week on Friday, Environment CS Keriako Tobiko attended a technical briefing on the ongoing rehabilitation and infrastructure maintenance. The works are aimed at restoring the park's ecological health and integrity. Tobiko was received at the park by Chief Conservator of Forests Julius Kamau. The park is currently under the surveillance of KFS rangers. With funds from the Treasury, KFS has erected a perimeter fence, laid 2.4km of walkways, planted 4,200 seedlings, constructed new toilets, and laid out a large nursery, which will supply indigenous trees. The agency has also stabilised the river banks. Plans are afoot for a café and amphitheater in the park and a place where worshipers can pray.  Once complete, the Michuki Memorial Park will become an urban forest and follow the model of Karura Forest, which has been safe, self-sustaining and heavily frequented by walkers, runners and nature enthusiasts. The park is situated along Nairobi River between the Globe Cinema roundabout and the far end of Uhuru Highway. It is in the neighbourhood of Kijabe Street, Kipande Street, the National Museums of Kenya, Hotel Boulevard, Nairobi University's School of Diplomacy and the Norfolk Apartments. Prior to 2008, Tobiko said more than two-thirds of the land was largely unattended and was used illegally as a dumpsite. The late John Michuki, then Minister for Environment, created the park in 2008 by clearing a vast dumpsite. Much was done with a walking bridge built across the Nairobi River and the forest planted. Michuki won admiration and accolades for his enthusiasm and determination to clean and preserve the environment. In 2009, he was internationally recognised when the United Nations Environment Programme presented him with a certificate for his efforts to clean the river, which had been choking on human and industrial waste. The park was neglected soon after he was moved from the Environment docket. Michuki park is said to have lost its lustre in 2013 when functions were devolved to county governments. As a result, President Uhuru Kenyatta instructed CS Tobiko to take action since the park had degenerated to a hideout for thieves. With KFS management, idlers, drug users and thieves will have no room to pose danger to visitors at the park. On June 24, Uhuru accompanied by NMS Director-General Mohammed Badi visited the park. The two went round the city inspecting the achievements of the NMS after 100 days since it was established on March 18. 