A record number of Kenyans began taking daily pills to prevent HIV since  movement restrictions were imposed in March. Data from the National Aids and STI Control Programme show the highest jump this year was in March, when 2,405 people were initiated on Prep. In April, there was a slight decline and only 1,970 people began taking the pills. Kenyans can access the drugs for free in 1,900 health facilities countrywide. Nascop notes that so far, April had the highest total number of Kenyans on Prep, at 22,419. This combined number of new and continuing users fell slightly in May to 21,814. June figures have not been released. Prep stands for pre-exposure prophylaxis and comes in the form of an ARV pill taken daily by HIV-negative people to prevent infection when they are exposed to the virus. Global research during the past decade shows that Prep is more than 95 per cent effective at preventing HIV. Prof Kenneth Ngure from the School of Public Health at the Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology says Prep is not lifelong, and is only taken during seasons of risk. He said this explains the seesawing numbers of users. Poor adherence is also a factor and some studies have shown only a few people sustain the usage even through their seasons of risk. "Adherence is the Achilles heel for oral Prep. If you don't adhere it's easy for the infection to pass through," he told journalists in a virtual press briefing last week at the end of the International Aids Society conference. Prof Ngure is the IAS governing council member representing Africa. Last year, Dr Irene Mukui of the Ministry of Health said user discontinuation was the biggest challenge as only half of Prep users are still in follow-up. The Nascop data show discordant couples, where one partner is negative and the other positive, comprise half of all people currently taking Prep. Women comprise 58 per cent of all users. "Knowing partner status increases Prep uptake. Nowadays we know for every HIV-positive person, there's a 50 per cent chance their partner is negative," Prof Ngure said. Kenya's Prep programme has served 56,000 people, the highest in Africa, since it was rolled out nationally in May 2017. The Ministry of Health has licensed only Gilead's Truvada and its generic versions for use as Prep medicines. The Kenya Population-based HIV Impact Assessment 2018 survey, released in February this year, indicates that HIV prevalence stands at 4.9 per cent. In 2018, about 36,000 Kenyans were infected with HIV, yet a majority of them could have benefitted from Prep. But despite the low usage of Prep in Kenya, other studies confirm it has led to significant reductions in infection. A study presented at the virtual IAS meeting on July 9 showed just a 25 per cent uptake of Prep by women enrolled in the ECHO study in Kenya between 2015 and 2018 produced a more than 50 per cent fall in the rate of HIV incidence. The reason was that women who accessed Prep were those at higher risk. 