Special attention should be given to children who experience food and material insecurity to end child violence. According to the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection, children in humanitarian situations and street children are vulnerable to extreme violence. Cash transfers and other social protection measures have the potential to address violence, which is mostly rooted in economic insecurity, it says. The ministry found 39.6 per cent of females and 41.3 per cent of males aged 18-24 years suffered sexual or physical violence in the 12 months before the survey compared to 25.5 per cent of females and 19.6 per cent of males who did not experience any violence. “Families are under stress, facing uncertain futures and juggling many issues. Violence against children can become an outlet of frustrations and children are also at risk of online predators,” Unicef country representative Maniza Zaman says. According to the UN agency, social protection has a significant positive impact on poor and vulnerable children. Cash transfers – regular, predictable payments of cash – are an important social protection modality. Research shows that cash transfers promote economic empowerment, and decrease poverty and food insecurity. On June 29, the government through the ministry released Sh4.3 billion for the cash transfer programme meant for vulnerable populations, including orphans and vulnerable children. Beneficiaries received Sh4,000 each for May and June. However, street children say the money is yet to trickle down to them. According to the United Nations, social exclusion and extreme poverty offer fertile ground for violence against children and enhance the risk of abuse and exploitation. “Violence against children is a silent emergency that must end. If we want just, cohesive and peaceful societies, we must tackle the violence that threatens children’s rights and compromises the enjoyment of their rights,” UN secretary general Antonio Guterres says. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya