Raila Odinga’s allies and think tanks are bitter with one of his close confidants for what they term having a loose tongue. This after the man claimed that Raila’s path to power is now clear. They have accused the man, who holds a senior position, of giving too much information to their political rivals. According to the strategists, it is time that some sensitive information was kept away from the man to avoid making the ODM leader’s political game plan an open secret. They still recall the individual's outburst during the burial of Fidel Odinga in 2015 that left the country in shock. A governor from western Kenya who is facing an impeachment petition by members of the civil society is a man under siege. Over the weekend, he convened a meeting with MCAs at a hotel for a truce but ended up disappointed. A bird whispered to Corridors that only four MCAs turned up. So disturbed is the governor that he is now blaming area senators and some MPs for his troubles. It is alleged that the governor has been offering MCAs Sh150,000 to side with him. A senior government official who once downplayed the impact of Covid-19 in Kenya has gone into isolation following exposure to the virus. The man says he is working from home but has handed his duties to another senior officer. Those aware of the happenings in government say the coronavirus is slowly bringing public service to a standstill. The senior official said he is fine except for boredom. Sources say the virus has hit top government officials hard and many are now against holding physical meetings at the office. The reality that the virus is now all over has hit home. A manager of a radio station in one of the biggest media houses is uneasy after top management reinstated three journalists he had recommended for sacking. The manager, a smooth operator who is known for his high-handedness and malice against those not singing his tune, is afraid after the trio came back with letters from the CEO reinstating them. The trio was served with notices asking them to prepare for exit in 30 days. But just a day to the deadline, they received the communication on reinstatement.