Taita Taveta has begun the second phase of Barabara Mashinani, a programme for improving transport network in the county. Transport CEC Gasper Kabaka noted that most roads were rendered impassable by heavy rains in March. Speaking while inspecting the grading of Kamtonga - Manoa road in Mwatate subcounty on Tuesday, Kabaka said the programme will be implemented in all wards. “This programme targets to ensure all roads have been repaired to ease transport at the grassroots level. It will boost agriculture and trade,” the CEC said. Apart from grading, Kabaka said there will be heavy bush clearing, building of gabions and footbridges. He added that good roads play a vital role in boosting the economy of the county. "Apart from improving economies at the grassroots, the good road infrastructure will open up the region and improve access to public institutions like hospitals and schools among others," Kabaka said. Beside the road maintenance, the department has made progress in the construction of three weighbridges at Salaita, Ndii and Bachuma to boost county revenue collection. He said that the weighbridges will help the county government get revenue from goods that are transported along the roads that have been leaving the county untaxed. Kabaka revealed that the first ever weighbridges in the county are digitised, thus will be efficient in revenue collection. “Once complete, we will be able to collect revenue from trucks ferrying goods in and out of the county using the Taveta-Voi road and along Nairobi-Mombasa highway,” Kabaka said. He said the digital machines will give accurate measurements and save the losses currently recorded due to lack of measuring machines. The project entails construction of offices, slip and access roads and speed change lanes. Chief Officer Leonard Lang'at cautioned contractors against doing shoddy work, or they risk losing their contracts. "If you fail to deliver up to the set standards, we will not hesitate to terminate the contract. This financial year we are going to be very strict. Value for money is a must," Lang'at stressed. The CEC also witnessed the grading of Kisimenyi-Kwaho-Gae and Mkulima-gambenyi road in Kasighau Ward, Marungu Polytechnic road and the Lumbarwa Manolonyi and Mwaghogho Secondary school road in Ngolia Ward. Edited by R.Wamochie