Jambojet will resume flights to five local destinations on July 15 after government’s lifting of the ban of movement in and out of Nairobi, Mombasa, and Mandera counties. Starting next Wednesday, the regional low-cost carrier will operate three daily flights to Mombasa, two to Kisumu, two to Eldoret, one to Malindi, and four weekly flights to Diani. The frequencies will be reviewed regularly to respond to the changes in demand across the markets, management said in a statement on Tuesday. The Transport Ministry has developed protocols with best practices on conducting commercial air transport that will see aviation players observe the highest levels of safety and wellbeing of the customers and staff. “Since we halted operations back in April, we have been working with the Government of Kenya and the authorities to ensure that we create a safe environment for our customers when we get back to the skies,” Jambojet acting Managing Director, Karanja Ndegwa, said. “We want to assure our customers that we will follow the safety guidelines put in place to offer our customers a safe and pleasant flying experience,” he affirmed. He said measures Jambojet has taken, are in-line with the ‘Protocols for Air Travel’ developed by the Ministry of Transport, Kenya Airports Authority, and other Aviation players. The measures include thorough sanitization of aircraft with industry approved disinfectants before and after each flight. Additionally, the aircrafts have been fitted with High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filtration system that refresh the air every three minutes. All passengers and crew will be required to wear a face mask throughout the journey. Temperature checks will be done on arrival at the airport and hand sanitizers will be provided at all customer touch points. Jambojet halted operations on April 7,  after President Uhuru Kenyatta’s directive on cessation of movement by road, rail or air in and out of Nairobi, Mombasa, Kilifi and Kwale counties to curb the spread of Covid-19. The ban came to an end Tuesday 4am on the President’s directive, issued during his Monday address to the nation. Uhuru announced international air travel into and out of Kenya will resume August 1, in strict conformity with all protocols from the Ministry of Health, local and international civil aviation authorities, and any additional requirements applicable at the ports of departure, arrival or transit. This will allow Jambojet to commence flights to its regional destinations of Kigali(Rwanda) and Entebbe(Uganda). Since its inception, Jambojet has enabled affordable air travel with first-time flyers accounting for about 30 per cent of its customers. In the six years of operation, it has flown over three million passengers.