Kenya's rural farmers, who have to grapple with expensive farm inputs and unpredictable climatic conditions, are looking for new ideas to ensure food security for their families. Wangui Gitau, a programme coordinator at local non-profit organisation World Renew, says farming does not need to be a labour of expenses for small scale farmers but that through applying locally available options, households can have enough to eat and surplus for sale. The NGO, in partnership with the Anglican Development Services in Mt Kenya, Western and Central Rift, is supporting small-scale farmers in Murang'a, Busia and Nakuru counties. This is through a project funded by Global Affairs Canada in collaboration with Canadian Foodgrains Bank, to promote conservation agriculture among the rural farming population. Gitau explained conservation agriculture as an approach to manage agro-ecosystems for improved and sustained productivity and increased profits and food security while enhancing the resource base and the environment. Conservation agriculture is characterised by three principles - minimal tillage/soil disturbance, permanent organic soil cover and crop rotation. Esther Kaari, now in her 60s, lives in Kiharu, Murang’a, with her husband, Francis Maina, 72. They have been peasant farmers for as long as she can remember, and could only harvest just enough for their household needs. Four years ago when she heard about a new way of farming, she immediately expressed interest. “I was struggling as my farm was not producing anything significant. I participated in an exposure visit to see a farmer who had adopted Conservation Agriculture,” she recalls. Her visit surprised her because despite the dry season, the farms were well tendered and healthy. “The farmer we visited did not use huge monetary investments. This approach was not about having more money to put into your farm; it is more about committing to a new technique of farming, and commit to it all the way,” Kaari says. She went back to her home determined to give the new method of farming a try, committing a small piece of the farm (20ft by 20ft). She was impressed with the output, as that was the only section of her rather sandy and rocky farm that yielded a harvest. During the interview, she said the soil in her farm has improved so much that her produce has increased exponentially. Previously, she used to harvest 16kg of maize which has increased to 90kg and 60kgs of beans. “In my third season using this technique, I harvested 450kg of maize and 135kg of beans. Now, I sell produce to other farmers so I can buy drugs for my hypertension,” she says. Next, she ventured into chicken rearing after buying 16 chicks. Chicken improve nutrition for the family and are an excellent source of increased income. She grinds some of the maize she grows for chicken feed. Kaari bought 19 more chicks to produce eggs and is currently selling a tray of eggs at Sh450 weekly at the local market. With more income, she can supplement the chicken feed to get better production. The extra income has also helped her purchase cement, sand and iron sheets to upgrade to a modern house. Another farmer Naomi Ndunge, 53, takes care of her three grandchildren from her farming activities. For her, farming used to be difficult, but necessary. “I used to have problems with my farm, especially after my husband died in 2013. With the changing weather patterns, there are times when there have been no rains and thus I did not harvest or barely harvested anything,” she says. But after adopting conservation agriculture, things have changed and now even with little rain, she can harvest food that is sufficient for her household use and make an income from the surplus. “After many seasons of crop failure, I’ve now had six successful harvests. I used to get one bag of maize from three quarters of an acre but now I get four,” Ndunge says. She has also been able to reduce labour needed in the farm, thanks to the new method which promotes minimum tillage. “I do not have to pay for labour and I also have time to do other important things. With my extra time, I am able to go to the market in the morning and sell some porridge to make some more money. I could never have afforded the money or the time before to do this. I earn about Sh200 from selling 20 litres of porridge,” she says. World Renew's Gitau said they build the capacity on conservation agriculture and Good Agronomic Practices (GAP) to field staff conducting extension services to farmers. They also assist farmers to access a market. “We train farmers on creation of aggregation groups and centres for cereals and pulses, marketing their produce and connect farmers with buyers. Farmers are also trained on post-harvest handling and use of hermetic bags for storage to preserve grain quality over longer periods of time,” she says. The organisation is also working closely with county governments to push for the development and adoption of agricultural policies that support conservation agriculture.  Edited by R.Wamochie