 Nandi County has sacked 400 contracted health workers citing a ballooning wage bill which Governor Stephen Sang’s administration is unable to sustain. Members of the County Assembly have been concerned that more than 60 per cent of the devolved unit's budget is spent on recurrent expenditure - mainly salaries -leaving little for development programmes. Nandi has more than 1,000 contracted workers. Some of the affected contract workers told the Star that they were last week given notice to leave without pay. Others are due to go home next week. The notice issued by Kapsabet Referral Hospital Medical Superintendent Daniel Kemboi affects clerks, cleaners, guards and support staff. “We were hired last year and deployed to various health facilities and since then many of us have not been paid. Now we have been served with sacking letters with effect from next week,” one of them said. The county owes contract workers more than Sh25 million in wages. Their spokesperson, Janet Kirwa, said they were officially hired in November last year on three- year contracts at a monthly salary of Sh7,500 each and deployed to 249 health facilities in the county. Kirwa said they had hired a lawyer to sue the county government over the termination of their contracts and non-payment of wages "yet we have families to take care of". “We have tried to talk to the county Health executive over our fate but she has been arrogant and completely ignored us,” she said. Health executive Ruth Koech and Governor Stephen Sang declined to comment on the matter. The MCAs complained that the Sang administration hired the contract workers irregularly. Their pay had not been factored in the county budget. Meanwhile, the county assembly Education  Committee chairman Emmanuel Rono has resigned over "graft in the education department and the unexplained loss of construction materials and more than Sh200 million for building ECD centres". Rono said his efforts to oversight the department and ensure good use of public funds had been frustrated. He accused the administration of protecting corrupt officials and their collaborators. He said the construction of 69 ECD centres had stalled due to corruption since Sang took over. Only four such centres have been completed, he said. According to Rono, no money has allocated money for ECDs in the county's Sh7.3 billion budget for 2020/21 despite an outcry over the stalled projects. “I don’t want to be part of the rot in the department. My efforts to streamline the department have been frustrated by the governor and his team and I would rather quit than wait to be blamed by the public for the rot,” the committee chairman told journalists in Kapsabet town. However, he did not mention those in his resignation letter to clerk of the assembly. The July 2 letter read in part: “Kindly accept this letter as my formal resignation as the chairperson for the committee on education and vocational training. I thank committee members for the support they accorded me during the time I served.” Last year, his committee probed the loss of material and money in the education department and recommended the sacking of eight senior officials. Sang's reaction was to form a task force to investigate the loss and ignored the recommendations of the assembly. He only transferred some of the officials. Sang said he was aware of Rono's resignation but referred the Star to the Education executive to react to the graft accusations. Rono, who is the Lessos MCA,  said the education department had faced serious problems since 2017 which the governor had failed to resolve. He announced at a funeral last week that he would quit to avoid blame. “I am requesting the EACC and DCI to thoroughly investigate the loss of money in the education department and the entire county so that the people of Nandi do not continue to lose public funds supposed to benefit them,” he said.  - mwaniki fm