 MPs Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu) and Alice Wahome (Kandara) have accused Interior CS Fred Matiang'i of leaving them out of a consultative meeting held with leaders from Murang'a county. The two said they were not invited to the meeting that discussed development projects in the county. Matiang'i on Friday met local leaders led by Governor Mwangi wa Iria and Senator Irungu Kang’ata alongside Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia and Water PS Joseph Wairagu. It is said the leaders agreed to have Matiang’i lead an inspection tour of all national government projects in Murang'a. Nyoro and Wahome spoke after locals criticised them for boycotting the meeting. The lawmakers said they only learnt about the meeting on social media. Speaking during a joint inspection tour of projects in Kandara, the MPs said it was too late to hold a development meeting because the budget process is over. Wahome said she had forwarded a list of priority projects in her constituency  earlier in the year and was waiting for funding from the government. She cited the Bildad Kagia Hospital that is yet to be completed and the Kenya Medical Training College that she has proposed. “It is the role of an MP to lobby for projects from the government. This meeting would have been more efficient if it was held before the budget was done,” Wahome said. She said she did not receive a call, text or mail from Matiang'i asking her to attend the meeting. “The meeting felt more like a public relations activity because we have only two years remaining and this financial year has already left the dock.” Wahome said those who attended the meeting should have lobbied for the Kenol-Murang'a-Sagana dual carriageway for the sustenance of Murang’a town. She said the town risks being marginalised by the construction of the Kenol-Sagana-Marua-Isiolo dual carriageway that the government has prioritised. “I can’t speculate why I was uninvited but we have to stop intimidating leaders to follow certain political paths,” Wahome said. Nyoro said the meeting did not concern him. He challenged those claiming that they boycotted the meeting to produce the evidence of their invitation. “When you call a meeting for Murang’a leaders and you don’t invite me, it makes me wonder whether the people I represent are from another county,” Ndindi said. “But maybe they failed to invited me because they realised that many of my projects were incorporated in the budget,” he added, noting that he camped in Nairobi for months pushing for his projects to be considered. The MP said Kenyans have a right to development because they pay taxes and that projects should not be used to influence their political stand. “People pay taxes when they buy sugar and should not be threatened with being denied projects or having them stopped if they do not follow certain political sides,” the Kiharu lawmaker said.  Edited by P.O