As the politics to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) as Mt Kenya's regional kingpin gain momentum ahead of 2022, it is now emerging potential candidates are going to great lengths to play dirty tricks on each other. A source who is aware of the behind-the-scenes skulduggery tells Corridors that inheriting the President’s mantle will come with a price as some of the candidates have already unleashed nasty propaganda against those seen as close competitors. Just on Sunday, former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo became the first victim. Social media was a buzz with claims that Kabogo had joined Kanu, complete with pictures of the former governor in the Jogoo party's red regalia. Kabogo had to come out to deny the claims that had been shared widely. *** What are some senior government officials up to? Corridors has been told a team of top officials are behind a newly crafted political party. Those in the know say that the political outfit was silently registered by state functionaries who fronted several young politicians from Eastern region. A mole has it that the state officers want to use the party at the opportune time to politically control the region. It said the officials of the party who include some young men from Meru county, are being financed by the functionaries and are living large. President Uhuru Kenyatta's (pictured) warning against involvement in politics could have fallen on deaf ears. *** A senior politician has surprised his handlers. Why? The man has turned to the services of a blogger who has now become like his chief political strategist. Even his advisers, who are professionals, have been relegated to his outer circle. It's said that the blogger could be behind the politician's recent political activities that are then hyped on social media. Some insiders were heard asking whether the politician is serious with his big ambitions or he can't just take professional advice. *** Our little bird has it that at least three-quarters of MCAs from one of the 47 counties have been holding clandestine meetings to find their footing. A mole in the county tells Corridors the MCAs are tired of backing the wrong horse at a point in time when the fortunes of their county are looking up, courtesy of the new team. The one agenda item the the MCAs are vehemently rooting for is the fulfilment of a critical promise made to them by the head of state when they visited him at State House recently.