Taita Taveta Woman Representative Lydia Haika has advised youths and women applying for the National Government Affirmative Action Fund (NGAAF) to venture into the lucrative tourism industry. Haika said there is great potential in domestic tourism since international travel had been halted due to coronavirus. “The fund is meant to empower the groups economically. Beneficiaries can take advantage of the breathtaking scenery of the county and its culture,” she said. The legislator said the groups could apply for funds and invest in camping gear such as tents and catering equipment. She further encouraged youths to be conversant with fora and fauna of the county and venture into tour guiding. “There are hundreds of unexploited business opportunities in the tourism sector in this county. The opportunities can easily be tapped if the groups are empowered,” Haika added. She spoke while handing out cheques for table banking, social cultural development and talent nurturing. The groups that benefited were Mwagoieni at Mwavunyi, Wadawida Wavini at Mnamu, Isuwirio Wajane at Bura Mission, Mnengu at Mwasange and Mdindi Kireti Landi. Haika said the tourism sector had severely been hit by the coronavirus pandemic, rendering hundreds of workers who directly depend on the sector jobless. She called on local organisations, businesses, financial institutions, county and national governments to boost to local tourism. “Many of our youth have been rendered jobless as a result of the pandemic. It is prudent for the government to revamp the sector and sustain their jobs,” she noted. The county boasts of the expansive Tsavo National Park, wildlife sanctuaries, lodges and Vuria Hills which is arguably the most preferred hiking and camping site in the Coast region. The county hosts a number of historical sites. In 2014, National Museums of Kenya gazetted 14 sites in Taita Taveta county as sites of historical interest. They include Salaita Hill, Voi Commonwealth War Graves, Kenyatta caves in Wundanyi and first old district commissioners’ house in Taveta. Others are Taveta ACK Holy Trinity Church Mahoo and Mahoo pastor’s residence. Edited by Henry Makori