Meru MCAs have adopted a motion to compel Governor Kiraitu Murungi to collaborate with county commissioner Allan Machari in installing CCTVs and mast floodlights. Ward reps who contributed cited victims attacked within major towns and markets including assembly members and prominent doctors, and burglaries in shops due to increased insecurity. Munincipality MCA Elius Murega tabled the motion citing Gakoromone market, Makutano, Gitimbine, Maua, Laare, Nkubu, Mikunduri and Timau among other towns requiring urgency of surveillance to save lives, reduce crime and attract investors to boost a 24-hour economy. Nkuene rep Martin Makasi said installation of security lights will improve surveillance, restore confidence of investors and arresting of culprits. Murega said sometime back, the offices of the governor and county commissioner had been broken into and computers stolen. Murega and Jenerose Mati of PNU recalled the killing of Meru Level 5 Hospital surgeon Albert Obiri in 2014 and Magistrate Caroline Kemei’s daughter in 2018. Obiri was hijacked, tortured, killed and his body dumped near Naari forest in Buuri subcounty. The body of the Cosolata Primary pupil was found in Imenti forest. Another doctor Ashford Mbogo, who worked as an optician at the Meru Level 5 Hospital was shot at Kaithe village in North Imenti, metres from his home while driving his child to school in 2014. Last week, journalist Jenerose Gacheri was attacked on her way home along Milimani road, near the county commissioner's residence. Her camera was stolen. Last year in June, a minor was defiled, murdered and her body dumped inside a maize plantation in North Imenti. The disappearance of the orphan was reported by het grandfather after she didn't return home from school one day. In April last year, physician Mick Awiki at Meru Level 5 Hospital was attacked by thugs and left nursing abdominal and stab injuries to his head. A Meru Polytechnic student was killed in unclear circumstances while attending morning studies. Students protested, torching property worth millions and paralysing transport as they engaged police in running battles at Kaithe within Makutano town. PNU’s Lucy Mukaria urged her Implementation committee colleagues to ensure money is allocated in the coming budget for installation of CCTVs. Samuel Mutura (Naathu) said street lighting in the village markets will enable a 24-hour economy and flush out criminals. Edited by R.Wamochie