Gor Mahia head coach Steven Polack is certain that the exit of Peter Odhiambo will not weaken the goalkeeping department. The club yesterday confirmed that they had parted company with the former Mathare United custodian who is rumoured to be on his way to Wazito. Wazito currently have one goalkeeper, Bixente Otieno after releasing the duo of Steven Njungé and Kevin Omondi. "Peter Odhiambo parts ways with Gor Mahia on mutual agreement. We thank him for his contribution to the success of the club and wish him the very best in his endeavours," wrote the club on its verified Twitter account. Besides letting Odhiambo go, the club also confirmed the exit of Tanzanian national Dickson Ambundo who arrived at the club at the start of the 2019-2020 season albeit on loan from Alliance FC. "We wish Dickdon Ambundo all the best after his loan deal at the club ended and has since returned to Tanzania. We appreciate every bit of his efforts while at Gor Mahia," read another tweet. Polack said Odhiambo's exit did not deal his plan a major blow and tipped the 2017 Koth Biro winner with 1000 Street to return to the club in future. Gor signed the widely traveled custodian Levis Opiyo last week from Nairobi City Stars and will compete for playing time with the experienced Boniface Oluoch and David Mapigano. "He wasn't getting sufficient playing time and we had to painfully let him seek it elsewhere. He is a quality goalkeeper whom I believe at some point he will return to the club. He loved the club and the fans loved him too. We are left with three glove men including the new signing, Opiyo who will get the job done in the new season and the subsequent ones,"said the Aston Villa fan. Polack in the meantime said he had plans to beef his squad with quality acquisitions in readiness for the new season where they will be seeking to defend their title as well as make amendments to their last season's lucklustre performance in the continental matches. "We have to bring in new players to strengthen a few areas we have identified. We don't want to repeat the past mistakes of signing more than half a dozen players. It works against the existing chemistry between the players whom I worked with last season," he added.