Constitutional judge James Makau has recused himself from the case by a group seeking to have AG Kihara Kariuki declared unfit to hold office over the 41 judges stalemate. Justice Makau said he was one of the judges who sat on the bench that determined the Adrian Kamotho case where it was ruled that that the delay by President Uhuru Kenyatta to appoint the 41 judges was unconstitutional. The judge directed that the file be placed before the principal judge in their division who will allocate it to a new judge to handle the case. In the case, Katiba Institute moved to court last month seeking to have the AG declared unfit to hold public office due to his conduct in the appointment of the judges. The President is yet to appoint the 41 judges that were recommended by the JSC last year, saying that some of them have integrity issues. Katiba argued that Kihara has violated the law by his conduct in the appointment of judges, which does not promote and uphold the rule of law. “A declaration does issue that AG Kariuki, having grossly violated Articles 10, 73, 75 and 156(6) of the Constitution, is incompetent and unfit to hold office as Attorney General of the Republic of Kenya,” they argue. Through lawyer Ochiel Dudley, Katiba Institute, which has also sued the President, says they have reason to believe the President is planning to discriminately appoint a few of the judges-in-waiting while leaving out others that he personally objects to. “Neither the President nor the Attorney General has bothered to disclose to the public or JSC the contents of the so-called adverse reports,” the petition reads. Ochiel argues that even though the AG approved of the judges-in-waiting following thorough vetting and recruitment, he has now inexplicably changed tack. They further argue that the anticipated selective appointment of judges would violate the Constitution, defy an earlier court order and undermine the functioning and independence of the Judiciary. “That in any event, the President’s refusal to appoint the judges as recommended by the JSC, and ordered by the High Court, is a continuing constitutional violation requiring urgent orders of mandamus compelling compliance,” court documents read. Last year in July, the Judicial Service Commission interviewed, recruited and recommended 41 persons for appointment as judges to the Court of Appeal, the Employment and Labour Relations Court and the Environment and Land Court. The group says the President's refusal to appoint the 41 judges has significant deleterious effects on the right to fair hearing, right of access to and administration of justice and right to fair trial. Edited by R.Wamochie