Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has made it clear that he doesn't know who Pastor Robert Burale is. This is after a journalist asked CS Kagwe to respond about the credibility of the popular motivational speaker’s sickness after he shared a video on social media while at the hospital after he was confirmed to have coronavirus. "I've never heard of this guy. You are saying he has been paid, I don't know who is supposed to have paid him, I don't know what he's doing. When it comes to issues like rumours and so on all over the place, if I were to respond to every rumour, I'd be very busy," Kagwe said. He added that he honestly doesn't know about "this Robert guy and I don't know who would have paid him and why he would be pretending." Kagwe questioned why someone would pretend to be sick. "The guy is probably sick but you have decided that he's not sick so let me leave that one out," he added. In a social media post, Burale detailed his ongoing journey of healing. He said he waited for the President to give his speech before he put up his post. “Now that the country is opened. I owe it to family, friends and people I love this information. Above all, everything we go through is for God’s glory,” he wrote. Burale said last week he was struggling to breathe and rushed to Nairobi Hospital where he was tested for Covid-19 and 24 hours later the results were out. But Kenyans took to social media to question him with many saying he was faking it and was looking for attention from the public. Kenya on Thursday  reported 447 new cases, bringing to 8,975 the total number of infections. This is the highest daily cases record since onset of pandemic in the country. The new cases emerged from 3,803 samples that were tested in the last 24 hours. A total of 200,311 samples have been tested to date. Out of the new cases, 280 male and 167 are female. In terms of age, the youngest is a one-year old infant while the oldest is 88 years old. Some 64 patients were discharged, raising number of recoveries in the country to 2,657. However four more patients have died to the virus increasing the number of fatalities to 173. Speaking from Mombasa, the CS said applauded the county officials for its heightened virus control measures.