With the conditional reopening of the economy, businesses will gradually resume operations, particularly the micro, small and medium enterprises. However, I would like to echo President Uhuru Kenyatta’s call for high individual responsibility. Abide by all the health guidelines to flatten the curve. In so doing, we will not only save lives but also businesses and livelihoods. Enough progress must be made in suppressing the virus to ensure that we don’t revert to a full-scale lockdown. Each business must put in place effective protocols to protect its employees and customers. The business sector must also pay close attention to feedback from health experts on how the process of reopening the economy is affecting the rate of infection. With the lifting of the cessation of movement order against Nairobi, Mombasa and Mandera counties, traders will now be able to freely ferry goods and facilitate adequate provision of services. Nairobi and Mombasa are key investment hubs and transit points for goods and services for both domestic and foreign markets. The scheduled resumption of both domestic and international flight mid this month and end of next month respectively is a great relief for the aviation and hospitality industries, which are some of the worst hit sectors. We commit that as the business community to play a proactive role to safeguard employees and customers. This is the new normal and we have to live with it. It all boils down to individual responsibility in observing social distancing rules, sanitising, putting on face masks properly and regularly washing our hands with running water and soap. We will work closely with all government agencies to see to it that no business premises, facility or establishment operates without being 100 per cent compliant. Those selling farm produce must also keep safe and avoid crowding. This cannot be achieved without personal discipline. That is why Kenyans must play their rightful role. We owe it to ourselves to be our brothers' and sisters’ keeper. Richard Ngatia President of the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KNCCI)