Police in Migori County have launched manhunt for an MCA who is alleged of assaulting a Migori county worker in the ongoing construction of a road in his ward. Police said Ntimaru West MCA Francis Magori has gone underground and they are trailing him for questioning over July 7 incident where he assaulted and incited people to attack a county government worker. Ntimaru area police boss John Losia told the Star on Saturday that the MCA is still at large and has similar assault cases which he is also being sought to record a statement. “We had an earlier warrant of arrest order issued against him, apart from that we are also seeking to arrest him to answer to queries on the July 7 incident,” Losia said. He said they are trailing the legislator closely including checking him along road blocks from Ntimaru town to Migori town. Speaking to the Star in Kehancha on Thursday, Benjamin Chacha a road engineer in Kuria East sub-county said he was out to check a stand-off between Magori’s office and a contractor over murram work on Ntimaru-Canon area. “I was to check on condition of the murram which the MCA complained was deficit and the road work was shoddy. We were at the murram pit site in Ngoche area when the attack happened,” Chacha said. He said while they were checking the site, the MCA attacked him several and attempts to flee from him were subdued “because he has a bigger physique and his aggressiveness was so sudden.” “He personally attacked me using kicks and blows, I tried to flee but he followed me insisting he was going to slaughter me like a goat,” Chacha said. He said onlookers looked on as the area legislator incited a group of youths to beat him as he used his car to block an escape route. “I was strangled on the ground and even after pulling off grass from the ground to call for leniency a sharp knife was brought to kill me, women who yelled dissuaded the attackers,” he said. He said he suffered injuries on his fingers, head, arm and upper abdomen where he was treated at Kegonga Sub-county Hospital and reported the matter at Kegonga Police Station and Ntimaru Police in OB numbers 22/07/07/2020 and 15/08/07/2020 respectively. When contacted on the phone, Magori admitted the allegations saying he is trying to reach out to that family to talk over the matter. He said that he acted out of anger and apologised. “He has sent several colleagues he works with in the assembly to seek a truce, but since he is a person I know I was shocked by how extreme the attack was. My life was in danger despite pleading,” Chacha said. He insisted he will seek justice through judiciary and wanted the police to arrest the suspect and taken him before a court of law as his life is still in danger.