A school fight between two pupils could have resulted in the stampede that claimed the lives of 14 pupils at Kakamega Primary School. The February 3 incident was initially linked to cultic activities and teachers were accused of negligence. Other reports said the children ran because a teacher ordered them to leave quickly. However, Education CS George Magoha on Wednesday moved to clear the air, terming the tragedy an accident. He said the Kakamega Primary School incident was worsened by the management's decision to close one of two staircases from the third floor where the accident happened. Magoha revealed the contents of an assessment report into the matter before the Education committee of the National Assembly chaired by Malava MP Malulu Injendi. The committee sought answers to two separate incidents, six months apart, that took the lives of 21 students and left scores of others injured. A section of Precious Talents Academy collapsed, claiming nine lives and leaving over 60 injured in September last year. The CS noted that there was malpractice in the construction of a two-storey structure that led to its collapse. Basic Education PS Belio Kipsang said the school's efforts have been futile since the incident despite seeking clearance of operation license three times. The license was revoked after the tragedy. "We have conducted three assessments at the institution since the incident but it is yet to be cleared as it failed to meet the set standards," Kipsang said. "Action has been taken on the two issues and other arms of government are dealing with the cases." Kipsang said some people had been taken to court including ministry officers. The PS said the ministry had strengthened inspection of schools through the Directorate of Quality Assurance to ensure safety of learners. Nominated MP Wilson Sossion on Wednesday called on the government to compel the owner of Precious Talents Academy to compensate parents of children who lost lives in the tragedy. Sossion further called on enforcement of the law to compel school owners to get certification before any school building is occupied. Last week, the Directorate of Public Prosecutions ordered the incident at Kakamega Primary School be placed before a magistrate for immediate formal closure to calm speculation.  Edited by Henry Makori