North Rift counties are debating budgets totalling more than Sh30 billion, providing more resources for healthcare especially the fight against Covid-19 and for economic recovery. Finance executives in the eight counties in the North Rift Economic Bloc presented budgets to assemblies for debate and approval. Budgets are addressing increasing cases of Covid-19. Uasin Gishu has more than 100 cases and Turkana is second with more than 16 cases. All counties in Kenya are working to swiftly provide at least 300 beds to isolate Covid-19 patients, as agreed two weeks ago with President Uhuru Kenyatta to handle increasing cases. “Our budget will priortise healthcare to mainly address the effects of Covid-19 and also agriculture to stimulate economic recovery,” Uasin Gishu Finance executive Julius Ruto said as he tabled budget estimates at the assembly. Nandi Finance executive Alfred Lagat also emphasised the healthcare sectors that will help the economy recover faster. Of the Sh30 billion Noreb budgets, Uasin Gishu has the largest of more than Sh11 billion, Nandi more than Sh7 billion, Trans Nzoia Sh8 billion and Elgeyo Marakwet more than Sh4.5 billion. The counties are also reviving stalled projects that will stimulate economic recovery. Governors also agreed to invest more in infrastructure, water and education, which are some key sectors affected by Covid-19 and floods. “This requires extra funding by the counties and the national government, Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago said. He is also Noreb chairman. Uasin Gishu MCAs already passed the second supplementary budget for 2019-20 for the Covid-19 response and to pay newly recruited heath workers. The approved estimates for 2020-21 include Sh5.7 billion for development and expenditure and Sh5.64 billion for recurrent expenditure. MCA Jonathan Ng’etich, who is chairman of the Budget committee, moved the motion on the supplementary budget, including Sh125 from the national government and Sh6 million from the Danish interntional development agency. Nandi Governor Stephen Sang wants extra funding to expand health facilities and provide Covid-19 isolation facilities in each of the five subcounties. They will handle other medical cases after the worst of the pandemic passes. He also wants funds to complete the Sh430 million Kapsabet Mother and Child Unit at the Kapsabet County Referral Hospital that is being upgraded. Trans Nzoia Governor Patrick Khaemba, his Elgeyo Marakwet counterpart Alex Tolgos and John Lonyangapuo of West Pokot are also investing more in healthcare. (Edited by V. Graham) 