Langata Hospital on Friday clarified that the institution has never conducted any coronavirus tests. In a statement by the the management, the hospital reiterated that all suspected cases were referred to Kemri for Covid-19 testing services. The management also clarified that the agreement to refer patients to the Kenya Medical Research Institute does not mean there is a formal partnership between the two institutions. "In an effort to respond to the needs of our patients, we reached out to Kemri on the possibility of referring our patients for testing at its facility. We received an affirmative response from relevant officers at Kemri and it is on that basis that we put in place safety procedures to enable our patients to be provided with Covid-19 testing services at Kemri," the management said. According to the agreement, patients were charged a total of Sh5,500 inclusive testing charges of Sh4,000 by Kemri and Sh1,500 for facilitation and transport by Langata Hospital. "All tests were done by Kemri, all results were valid and all corresponding reports were certified by Kemri. Langata Hospital would collect these results within 48 hours of testing and deliver them to patients". Confusion on whether the hospital had gone into partnership with Kemri was brought about by a marketing poster by the hospital's team which has since been withdrawn following public concerns. "After some time, given the frequent nature of our referrals to Kemri, our marketing team erroneously published a poster which may be construed to mean that there was a formal partnership between Langata Hospital and KEMRI. A withdrawal of the poster was ordered as soon as it was brought to the attention of the management." Meanwhile, the management also disputed claims that the hospital was shut down following a raid by government officials on Wednesday. It said only the hospital laboratory has been closed and criminal charges brought against some staff over inaccurate coronavirus tests. Two senior officials and two lab technicians working have been charged with stocking invalidated and expired laboratory reagents.