Wiper officials have lashed out at ODM leaders for trying to 'blackmail and belittle' party leader Kalonzo Musyoka over his plan to sign a coalition pact with Jubilee. The party denounced claims by their Nasa coalition partner, ODM, that Wiper leader Kalonzo was “undecided”, trying to reap big from both the majority and the minority sides of Parliament. Wiper leaders indicated they would have members in leadership positions relinquish their minority slots once the party signs a coalition agreement with Jubilee. Wiper national vicechairman Victor Swanya told the Star Wiper rejects insinuations by ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna that it was undecided, terming the claims “belittling Kalonzo.” “There is no other party leader who has made [more] major sacrifices for the sake of the country than Kalonzo Musyoka. He has supported ODM leader Raila Odinga twice in presidential contests and saved the country from sliding into anarchy in 2007 when he joined retired President Mwai Kibaki's government,” Swanya said. Swanya, a key Kalonzo ally, told off Sifuna terming his remarks “immature and driven by juvenile excitement”, saying they should be rejected and treated with contempt. “Sifuna is not in the same league with the Wiper leader. He should be cautioned that his remarks against our party leader would be met with full political force,” he said. Sifuna on Saturday had assailed Kalonzo, terming him undecided “as always”, even in his deal with Jubilee, by failing to relinquish the minority slots it enjoys. “But knowing Wiper and their leader, I’m sure the plan is to firmly appear undecided as always to keep eating from both pots. If having your cake and eating it was a party, it would be Wiper,” Sifuna was quoted saying. But Swanya said Wiper will not be “blackmailed” to withdraw its plan to enter into a coalition with Jubilee ahead of 2022. “Wiper has made a decision and will not delay even for a moment its planned pact with Jubilee. Wiper has a clear plan on how it wants to approach the 2022 elections but unfortunately that has caused a lot of jitters in ODM quarters,” he said. Kalonzo’s party has already announced its intention to elevate its cooperation pact with Jubilee into a coalition deal ahead of 2022. The party's National Executive Council sitting on Tuesday decided that Wiper officials start negotiating with Jubilee for a coalition agreement. On Sunday, National Assembly Deputy Minority leader Robert Mbui told the Star Wiper members with minority privileges in Parliament would resign once the coalition deal is signed. “Once Wiper signs a coalition agreement with Jubile, we have no problem tendering our resignations from the minority side and crossing over to the majority,” Mbui said. The Kathiani lawmaker maintained that Wiper will sign the deal in the next one or two months after it gets ratification from the national delegates. “We want to see how we can manouevre and have the National Delegates Convention to make a decision on the NEC's proposal. That will be done soon and won't take long,” he said. Mbui said the process of ratifying the Jubilee coalition agreement has been held back because of the coronavirus pandemic that complicates procedures for an NDC. “I can tell you that once the delegates assemble, they will just ratify the deal. They will not object to it,” he said. Asked how Wiper will benefit after a pact with Jubilee, Mbui said it is about “working together for the 2022 General Election”. Should Wiper sign the deal with Jubilee, the fate of the moribund Nasa coalition would hang by a thread amid indications of orchestrated plans to kill it. Baringo Senator Gideon Moi's Kanu party has already signed a coalition deal with Jubilee. Kanu has already started to benefit from the fruits of the majority, including securing the Senate majority leader's slot through West Pokot senator Samuel Poghisio. Former Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto's Chama Cha Mashinani, which is also among the five Nasa partners, has signed a cooperation deal with Jubilee. The party is also expected to elevate the deal into a coalition agreement before 2022. The Nasa coalition agreement, which was deposited with the Registrar of Political Parties, provides that the arrangement becomes obsolete once at least three members formally join other coalitions. Raila Odinga's ODM, Musalia Mudavadi's ANC and Ford Kenya led by Moses Wetang’ula are the other Nasa principal partners. Once Kalonzo signs the coalition deal, then he would formally join Gideon in battling for President Uhuru Kenyatta's endorsement as his successor. (Edited by V. Graham) 