The team registering the assets owned by county governments has 100 days to finish its work, Council of Governors chair Wycliffe Oparanya has said. President Uhuru Kenyatta appointed the eight member-committee on June 19 to complete the registration from the defunct local authorities. They will also finish transfer of museums, disaster management, sports, fishing and fisheries and water. “I challenge you to call the various devolution stakeholders after 100 days in office to give us a report card of what you have done in office within those days,” Oparanya said. The Intergovernmental Relations Technical Committee comprises Angeline Hongo, Perminus Ndimitu, Linet Mavu, Alfred Khangati, John Burugu, Alice Mayaka, Saadia Abdi Kontoma and Wilson ole Pere. In a speech read on his behalf by the head of CoG human resources secretariat Caroline Odandi on Friday during the closure of IGRTC induction in Naivasha, the chair also asked the team to work around the clock to ensure everything in their tray is done in their six years tenure. The Kakamega governor noted there are many pending issues that need the committee’s attention but they should embrace consultation and corroboration with public and private stakeholders. “This will help move devolution to the next stage with the support of all parties. We cannot steer this country to realise Vision 2030 or even contribute to achieving the SDGs without each other,” he said. “We also have a pending judgment on national interest that was filed in court but is yet to be finalised as the Attorney General, who was part of the team that deliberated and came up with the report, has requested to file further documentation on the same. We encourage you to finalize the same,” Oparanya added. On his part, IGRTC interim chairperson Burugu promised that the new team will finalize pending issues and handle emerging issues including intra-governmental disputes especially disputes pitying county executives and county assemblies. Last week, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa said the intergovernmental relations committee will be made a commission. He added that the government has, through the summit with the CoG chaired by President Uhuru Kenyatta, resolved to declare that IGRTC a commission. “What is now remaining is amending the Inter-governmental Relations Act to entrench IGRTC as a commission. Members have already been given a term of six years and now everything should be running the commission way,” Wamalwa said.