KCB and former Harambee Stars striker Stephen Waruru has challenged players who ply their trade in the local leagues to supplement their football skills with technical jobs. Waruru has in the recent weeks lighted up social media with his plumbing skills which he learnt while serving in the military. Waruru resigned from the military and joined Sofapaka in December 2017 before decamping to the bankers in July last year. While local players have been told to invest in education by enrolling in online and part time classes, Waruru believes  technical courses will have instant returns as well as solve day-to-day challenges. The former Ulinzi Stars forward said after acquiring the skill, he started  a company which has in turn employed a handful of skilled youths from his backyard.He called on his colleagues to draw lessons from the break and invest in hands-on jobs once normalcy returns "I learnt plumbing while serving in the military and its now paying dividends handsomely. I  call upon my  colleagues to consider taking up technical courses because at some point, they will retire from the game and will need to have plan B in place," he said He added: "Most footballers at the moment do not have much to do and should learn a lesson from this coronavirus crisis. Football is my main job but its unsafe to rely on a single source of income. With the skills at hand,  it is easier to get a job  or open a company with a little capital and create job opportunities for many  others out there," he revealed Besides creating job opportunities and extra income, Waruru says the plumbing job has helped him maintain fitness from the time sporting activities were suspended. The Chania Boys'  alumnus said he was raring to go should the government lift the restrictions imposed on sports and social gatherings. "The job helps me keep fit even though the club sends us training regimes. I feel I am ready to play despite the long break. I am looking forward to return to the pitch to do what I do best,"he added.