Kakamega Homeboyz winger and national U23 Emerging Stars trialist Peter Thiong'o is spoilt for choice as five top flight clubs  intensify fight in hunt for his  signature. The speedster is among the local players who are heavily sought after  in the transfer market courtesy of his excellent performance with Homeboyz last season. The fast-rising youngster revealed that five clubs had already tabled bids to acquire his services but he was yet to make a decision. AFC Leopards,  Gor Mahia, Wazito and KCB have been linked to the player, who had registered eight goals, a couple of assists before the 2019-2020 season was concluded midway by the Football Kenya Federation as a precaution measure to the spread of coronavirus. Thiong'o, who joined Homeboyz last year, disclosed that the demand was triggered by the remaining three months in his current contract with the club. He said his employer has also shown interest in retaining him  and club chairman, Cleophas Shimanyula, has on several occasions summoned him for discussions. “Five KPL clubs have approached me for negotiations but I am yet to decide on my next move. I have three months remaining in my current contract although Homeboyz want me to stay long. Shimanyula and I have been in talks for some time but we are yet to agree on anything,” he said. The former St Joseph Youth midfielder opened up of his intentions to win the league next season. Apart from having the winners medal on his neck, the lanky midfielder revealed his plan to add more individual awards to his trophy cabinet. He was named the Sports Journalist Association of Kenya(SJAK) player of the month in December last year. “We (Homeboyz) were in contention for the title last season but the virus worked against our plan. Whether I remain at Homeboyz or sign elsewhere, my goal remains winning the league next season. Besides winning the league, I will be eyeing the 'Golden Boot' and other individual accolades such as the player of the month award,” he disclosed. Meanwhile, Thiong'o said he was looking forward to play in the continental matches in the near future as well as the national team. FKF presented Gor's name as the country's representative in the next season's CAf Champions League by virtue of winning KPL. The federation is yet to give the way forward regarding the remaining bit of the Shield matches, where the winner play in the Confederations Cup. “It is my hope to guide my next employer  next season to seal a place in the continental matches. I also have a dream of earning my first call to the national team, having tried with the junior side last year,” he added.         