During countrywide tours and public participation forums, the task force on mental health visited Mathari hospital in Nairobi on February 14. From lack of basic facilities like toilets, the team lead by Dr Frank Njenga found that patients were housed in unsafe buildings that would be condemned as unfit for human habitation if inspected by public health authorities. Standards of hygiene were wanting, especially in the forensic unit where fleas and flies roamed freely. “The task force was met by a heavy stench in many of the wards and worst in the forensic unit,” the report states. The task force recommends that dilapidated buildings at the hospital be demolished and a new facility set up. In their report released last week, the team said the hospital was beyond repair and some areas should be brought down to build in their place a hospital where Kenyans can receive care in a humane environment. Mathari, the only national referral mental hospital, was built in 1910 and has an official capacity of 750 patients. The team found that even though a few wards have been recently constructed, the majority of the physical infrastructure is 110 years old and dilapidated. “Some of the buildings have even been condemned by the Ministry of Works as inhabitable. It lacks basic infrastructure to deliver modern evidence-informed psychiatric care,” the report says. This, the report says, only works to fuel the stigma and discrimination of the mentally ill. For instance, the outpatient unit, though a relatively newly constructed building, has been poorly designed and does not meet the expected standards. “Patients, doctors and nurses are crammed inside a small room with little ventilation, no escape route (in case a patient turns violent) but most importantly, it offers a complete lack of privacy for issues discussed.” The forensic unit is in complete disrepair with majority of the roofs in the building gaping or leaking. Buildings that have been condemned are still standing and pose a serious hazard to workers and patients in the facility. The uniforms worn by patients were similar to those worn by prisoners. Some were short and ill-fitting leading to most of the patients wearing additional clothes not part of the uniform especially in the female wards. The report calls for the fast tracking of the recent decision by the Cabinet to give Mathari Referral Hospital semi-autonomous status. It says that this will be a big first step in realising the dream of a clean and dignified hospital for the care of some of the most vulnerable Kenyans. There is only one forensic psychiatry inpatient unit located in Mathari hospital and it serves the entire country. The unit is old, overcrowded, understaffed and fails to provide an environment for treating the illness as well as the rehabilitation of behaviour of those admitted. The hospital does not receive any funding for mentally ill offenders, which translates to very constrained services offered to them thus posing a huge burden to the hospital. Also, of great concern was that during the visit to the hospital, there was not a single injectable emergency drug available. “Psychotic patients in need of emergency care received none. The streamlining of Kemasa would lead to much needed relief for Kenyans,” the report says. Drug shortages, supplies in the dental unit, laboratory equipment and reagents are all in short supply. In addition, electroconvulsive therapy, a treatment for severe mental illness, was non-operational for the past month prior to the visit by the task force. Shortage of drugs was cited as a perennial problem, affecting even essential emergency psychiatric medication. “Kenyans said medication was frequently missing and when available they found it to be too expensive and at times of a poor standard. Majority of Kenyans mostly depend on outdated but affordable first generation medication,” the report says. There was confusion and a lack of responsibility in conducting the operations of the maximum security unit. It was noted that since 2016 there has been no release of these special needs offenders, leading to congestion and relapse in some patients. The team proposed that the role of prison wardens at the facility should be mitigation of violence only and allow the hospital to hire its own security personnel. There is a clash between doctors and guards in terms of rights of the offenders/ patients. As a result, three offenders managed to escape resulting in prison wardens losing their jobs. The staff are overwhelmed at the forensic unit with some saying the situation looked like they were running a prison and not a hospital. Njenga said the state should act with speed and implement the recommendations of the report, adding that all predictions indicate a dramatic increase in demand for mental health services in the post-Covid-19 era. Edited by Henry Makori