Mental distress and suicidal thoughts are high among survivors of all forms of childhood violence, a national survey shows. Data in the Violence against children report 2019 shows females aged 18-24 years who had experienced sexual, physical or emotional violence in childhood were significantly more likely to have mental distress and suicidal thoughts. This was in comparison to their age mates who had not experienced any form of violence as children. For 13-17 year olds, it was noted that a high percentage of males (51 per cent) and females (72 per cent) who had suffered sexual and emotional violence a year to the research were more likely to have experienced distress and suicidal thoughts 30 days before the survey. More than 2,000 children and young adults were interviewed between December 2018 and January 2019. Emotional violence was found to be the highest contributor to mental health conditions among young adults. Seven out of 10 females aged 18-24 who had suffered childhood emotional violence were found to have experienced mental distress a month to the survey. The report revealed a severe unnoticed impact of the invisible emotional violence on mental health. “Emotional violence has been found to be particularly damaging to the mental health of children and youths affected,” Labour CS Simon Chelugui said. According to the World Health Organization, “Exposure to violence at an early age can impair brain development and damage other parts of the nervous system, as well as the reproductive and immune systems with lifelong consequences." Children exposed to violence sometimes engage in negative coping and high-risk sexual behaviour leading to an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, cancer, diabetes and other health conditions. Currently, half of Kenyan children are currently suffering violence; one in two Kenyans aged between 18 and 24 having experienced some form of violence as a child. Globally, it is estimated that up to one billion children aged two to 17 are exposed to physical, sexual or emotional violence, or to neglect each year. According to United Nations Children's Fund, that is about half the children in the world. “A child’s first experience of violence is at home, school or in their community where they have the right to feel safe and be protected,” Unicef country representative to Kenya Maniza Zaman said. She added that Covid-19 and the containment measures are exacerbating the problem. "Families are under stress, facing uncertain futures and juggling many issues. Violence against children can become an outlet of frustrations and children are also at risk of online predators," Zaman said. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya