University students will only be allowed to resume their studies once their respective institutions meet the Covid-19 prevention measures. University Education and Research Principal Secretary Amb Simon Nabukwesi says the Education Ministry will provide a checklist to ascertain whether the institutions have complied with guidelines before being given the green light to reopen. “Safety of both students and staff is our priority in the ministry and we are working closely with other ministries in order to bring back students in August," Nabukwesi said. The PS has been on a week long assessment of preparedness towards re-opening at various institutions. He encouraged universities to make use of virtual learning platforms in order to ensure learning goes on uninterrupted. The PS added that this would also guarantee social distancing and reduce congestion in the institutions. "Institutions should ensure they have adequate hand washing points for maximum hygiene preferably foot operated, automatic sanitiser dispensers, gun thermometers, as well as equipped isolation facilities, Protective gears and face masks readily available within the institutions to curb the spread of Covid-19," he said. He spoke on Friday during an inspection tour of Bomet University College where he was represented by the Director University Education Dairus Ogutu. Nabukwesi later inspected Kisii University, Rongo University and Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology in Kakamega. He asked each of the institutions to prepare a readmission schedule indicating the number of students who can be accommodated after they have compiled with the ministry checklist. The PS also asked the universities to seek international collaborations which can help in improving some of the academic programs offered. "Identify unique courses which can attract students and in turn transform them into centres of excellence in specific academic areas of study," he added. During his visit to the four institutions, the PS also inspected ongoing development projects among them laboratories, libraries and student lecture halls which have been sponsored by the government. He said the government will continue to provide financial support to ensure the projects are completed for the benefit of the students. The vice chancellors of the four institutions said they were doing everything possible to ensure the Covid-19 prevention requirements are met by the institutions in readiness for re-opening. The ministry is making a series of visits to universities, teacher training colleges and technical training institutions to ensure the guidelines are adhered to ahead of reopening.