The Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company is in trouble for disregarding Health ministry's guidelines on prevention of Covid-19 during site visits and meetings. The meetings, according to the Nairobi Metropolitan Services, are being held contrary to corporate governance guidelines. NMS director-general Mohamed Badi raised concern over the matter in a July 21 letter to NCWSC managing director Nahashon Muguna. Badi said it had come to his attention that the water and sewerage company board continued to hold meetings, retreats and site visits contrary to corporate governance guidelines and government circulars on meetings and conduct of board business. Badi told Muguna to supply the NMS with a copy of the Board Work plan for financial year 2019-20 and a schedule of all board meetings and activities. The company should also submit expenditure of all the trips in that financial year. “... kindly supply us with a copy of board expenditure including local and international trips for FY 2019-20 and the relevant approvals required for extra and retreats pursuant to circular OP/CAB.9/1A dated March 11 on or date before July 24,” the letter says. The Badi communication tells the board to strictly comply with the law and regulations in the conduct of business and activities of the company. On June 19, the NMS boss reconstituted the NCWSC board through a gazette notice. The new team was headed by Major General (Rtd) Andrew Ikenye. However, the High Court suspended the appointment until a suit filed by activist Okiya Omtatah was heard and determined. Ikenye was to take over from Beryl Okumu Odinga, who has been named chairperson of the Governing Council of Kenya Water Institute for three years. According to Badi, the changes are in line with the transfer of key functions from Nairobi county government to the National Government. The transfer gave the NMS the mandate to manage the NCWSC . The changes were in pursuant to the Deed of Transfer of functions agreement and the resultant transfer of decisional and operational control of the NCWSC Ltd from the Nairobi City County Government to the National Government. Consequently, the NMS appointed Principal Secretaries for Housing, Water, and Finance, and NMS Enosh Momanyi or his designate and Athi Water Works Development Agency CEO Michael Thuita or his designate to the board with effect from June 17. The others were Florence Njau (the Nairobi branch chairperson of the Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers and Caterers) and Nicholas Nesbitt, the chair of Kenya Private Sector Alliance. Wakaguyu wa Kibiru and Petronilla Asiyo Ogut were picked as independent members. The NCWSC managing director was the ex-officio.   - mwaniki fm