Will Nairobi ever come close to being once again the Green City in the Sun? Kenya needs a green economy to make that happen in the capital and to provide a clean and healthy environment, especially in cities, the chamber of commerce has said. The Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry said on Wednesday a greener economy will promote sustainable production and consumption and ease population pressure. It will also create a vast sector of new jobs, many in energy production, and help alleviate poverty. Cities account for high greenhouse gas emissions, mostly due to population density, economic activities and transport. Nairobi, which is the economic hub of Kenya and East Africa, has been grappling with a growing population. More inhabitants’ lifestyles demand high energy, more land for construction and increasing consumption of natural resources. KNCCI president David Ngatia called for robust adoption of green economy programmes. “We are committed to working with all stakeholders and institutions to support the private sector to adopt green economy programmes with a major focus on Small and Medium Enterprises,” Ngatia said. He was speaking in Nairobi during a virtual review of on the interim report of the global Dasgupta Review on the economics of biodiversity. A green economy promotes activities that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and global warming. It focuses on the efficient use of natural resources and energy. Ngatia said SMEs can contribute to green growth through eco-innovation, eco-adoption and eco-entrepreneurship. KNCCI is committed to the Kenya Green Economy Strategy and Implementation Plan 2016-2030.” Ngatia added. The global Covid-19 pandemic makes a review of the economics of biodiversity essential, Ngatia and others said. Participants included representatives of regional economic communities, UN agencies, intergovernmental organisations, the diplomatic community, research and academia, private sector industry, development agencies and civil society groups. (Edited by V. Graham)