Church leaders in Bungoma have offered to reconcile feuding leaders because the wrangles risk stalling development. Addressing the press in Bungoma town, the clerics led by Calistus Barasa, chairman of Bungoma County Inter-Religious Council of Kenya, decried the disputes among the leaders. “The wrangles between the executive and the county assembly leadership have stalled development and derailed the fight against the global coronavirus pandemic,” Barasa said. Bungoma county executives have been embroiled in leadership wrangles with the assembly, with neither arm ready to listen to the other. Two weeks ago, two CECs were impeached by the assembly for what was alleged as corruption that is derailing development. Health CEC Antony Walela and his Public Administration counterpart Richard Sabwami were removed. Plans were in top gear to impeach Agriculture CEC Mathews Chirasha but he rushed to court and obtained an order that stopped the process pending hearing of the application. Barasa who is the presiding bishop of Tabernacle Praise International said the clergy were willing to reconcile Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula and his rivals who have been fighting over the leadership of Ford-Kenya party. They include Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati, Kanduyi MP Wafula  Wamunyinyi and his Tongaren counterpart Eseli Simiyu. At the same time Barasa noted that the Covid-19 lockdown had affected the church and allowed vices to spread. “Prolonged closure of places of worship has been politicised and has affected spiritual activities. The church is ready to adhere to the measures put in place as they prepare to open places of worship,” he said. The cleric stated that closure of churches and schools had led to high cases of teenage pregnancy. “On teenage pregnancies, let the parents and society address the problem and take their responsibilities so that it is not blamed on any other persons,” he said. Barasa asked the government to hold talks with Uganda to enable speedy clearance of trucks ferrying goods through Malaba and Busia border points. Present during the media briefing were Fr Christopher Wanyonyi of Christ the King Cathedral,  Bishop Fred Ogara of Faith Victory, Bishop David Walukhu of Nehemiah Ministries Webuye, Bishop George Mechumo of ACK, Bishop Sostine Bifwoli of Pefa , Newtone Wekesa of the Youth Department of interfaith and Selinah Walukhu county women's director. Edited by Henry Makori