@robertomollo3 Residents of Kaswanga on Rusinga Island have opposed a decision by the Homa Bay government to turn a level 4 hospital into a Covid-19 isolation centre. The county government closed Tom Mboya Level 4 Hospital, so it is reserved for Covid-19 patients. In line with this, medical equipment was transferred to other health facilities to pave the way for renovation. Patients were also advised to seek services at Sindo, Mbita and Kirindo health facilities, which are located outside the island. On Tuesday, however, Kaswanga residents protested, saying they were not consulted. They held demos at the gate of the hospital, urging Governor Cyprian Awiti's administration to rescind the move to stop other services. They argued that the county government should have created two sections — one for individuals who test positive for Covid-19 and the second for patients suffering from other ailments. Speaking to journalists during the protest, the residents, led by Joshua Ogolla and Walter Pundo, said many people cannot access health services at the other facilities because of distance. Tom Mboya hospital serves more than 7,500 people annually. It offers maternity care, immunisation, treatment, HIV-Aids testing and counselling, among other services. “We know HIV patients who can no longer get drugs because this hospital is converted to a Covid-19 isolation centre. They may turn into defaulters because no proper arrangement was made before the transfer,” Ogolla said. He said patients with infections such as diabetes, pneumonia and arthritis are also affected. Pundo warned that the novel coronavirus could kill a lot of people on the island if the hospital suspends services to residents. "Underlying infections such as malaria and HIV put the lives of many patients at more risk of dying from Covid-19. Let the county government review its stand to assist Kaswanga residents,” Pundo said. However, Homa Bay health executive Richard Muga said they could not allow the hospital to serve as Covid-19 isolation centre while at the same time having it retain previous services. He argued that Mbita Level 4 Hospital is close to Rusinga Island and provide the same services as Tom Mboya. “The facility can serve the two purposes as residents want but since Covid-19 has emerging issues of getting contracted through the air, we couldn’t allow it,” Muga said. Women were not left behind during the protest. They said the decision had complicated access to healthcare services. Pregnant women and mothers find it difficult to get prenatal and postnatal care, they lamented. Millicent Atieno said the decision has also undermined immunisation of children. “The closest health facility is Litare dispensary which is 7km away and does not offer immunisation services,” she said. Edited by F'Orieny