A private food processing company has locked horns with the Kenya Forest Service over a prime property in Ngong Road where the firm is putting up a new plant. Bulto Suppliers and Transporters Company, which is associated with Isiolo Governor Mohamed Kuti, has said it legally leased the land from the Agricultural Society of Kenya. The plant, whose construction is near completion, is meant for manufacturing healthy and nutritious food to address malnutrition and provide nutritional support for vulnerable people in need. Through a statement signed by lawyer George Kithi, Bulto said it made an application to lease the land following an advertisement by ASK which had developed a master plan for the Nairobi showground at Jamhuri Park. “ASK was inviting local and foreign investors to partner with them to develop the master plan. Bulto made a formal application on contractual terms and it was granted," Kithi said. According to documents seen by the Star, ASK leased out the land to Bulto in 2015. “Following the application dated June 11, 2015, we are pleased to offer you a license,” CEO Batram Muthoka and branch chairman Minne Njage co-signed a letter to Bulto. On Thursday, Environment CS Keriako Tobiko said his ministry had launched investigations into how the private company was putting up the factory next to ASK. The CS said he had dispatched a team of senior officials from the KFS on a fact finding mission. Apart from the development by Bulto, Tobiko said his team was also looking into how the Energy ministry is putting up an underground water storage facility near ASK. The CS said his team was out to establish if the land is part of Ngong Forest. “We toured the area and found a number of issues. There is some development coming up. We told them to stop to allow investigations,” Tobiko told the Star on phone. But Bulto has taken issue with the CS's order saying the land was leased from ASK and all approvals for the construction obtained from relevant authorities including National Environment Management Authority, National Construction Authority and Nairobi county government of Nairobi. The project is being financed by the Cooperative Bank of Kenya, the firm said. “The company has conformed with all legal provisions required for setting up the plant. Besides, it has invested in a biodigester component to ensure all waste from the production will be processed and recycled and that no effluent whatsoever will be allowed out into the environment,” Kithi said. Documents show that Bulto secured part of the premises from ASK measuring 1.48 acres for six years from October 1, 2015. “The rent payable shall be Sh180,000 per month to be paid quarterly in advance. The rent shall increase by 20 per cent after every two years,” the papers read. “You will not assign, transfer, sublet or part with the possession of the premises comprised in the lease without express permission in writing by the society's CEO." Bulto said it needed a lease period of at least 25 years to recoup its capital adding that it will do value addition to cereals, especially maize and bananas to produce flour. Banana flour, Bulto said, has use in medical, perfume and other sectors besides food. Bulto said it has bought Sh10 million worth of cereal additives such as minerals and vitamins. The company has purchased a Sh10 million maize and banana milling machine from China, it said, and has approximately Sh330 million into the plant project. Edited by R.Wamochie