Medics have warned of a global surge in Covid-19 cases and deaths among youths and, for Kenya, it might worsen when colleges reopen in September. Infectious disease epidemiologist Dr Mark Nanyingi says youths are not immune to severe infections and must strictly adhere to public health guidelines. "There is an epidemiological shift toward people in their 20s and 30s. They are also mobile and can go out so their risk of exposure is higher," he told the Star. Nanyingi said children in primary schools, who will reopen next year, are actually getting a milder infection compared to youths in colleges and universities. "There are more cases now of young people and teenagers dying around the world," he said. He termed the decision to reopen the country before flattening the curve a big unintended experiment. "In a month or so we should be able to see whether the experiment is working," he said. Nanyingi is a fellow at the UK's University of Liverpool and lectures at the University of Nairobi. "Let's tighten our belts. We might have a re-introduction of some of the lockdown measures. The numbers in Nairobi and Mombasa will definitely increase and we will see cases in places that were considered low risk." He noted road accidents are also likely to increase after the reopening of Nairobi and Mombasa, as people travel far and try to beat the 9pm curfew. "Road traffic accidents cause a high public health burden that cost most countries three per cent of their gross domestic product," he said. "Every one per cent increase in mean speed produces a four per cent increase in the fatal crash risk and a three per cent increase in the serious crash risk. Be less excited or anxious and drive carefully, you will arrive safely." Public health specialist Dr Bernard Muia asked the government to enforce the health guidelines even more strictly. He said if this does not happen, Kenya will begin reporting more Covid-19 cases in rural areas, where most old and vulnerable people reside. "About 78 per cent of people stay upcountry. The free movement means we might see more people moving upcountry.  This calls for personal responsibility and adhering to what the head of State has said," Muia said. Muia is the former Nairobi health executive and currently chairs the Murang'a Health and Sanitation Committee. He said building of many Intensive Care Units across the country is not sustainable. "Our orientation is preventive health, which is much cheaper. We can't keep on building hospitals," he told the Star. Statistician Prof Gichuhi Waititu said with the current trend of infections, the earliest time Kenya will reach its peak is around September when colleges reopen. "It should also be noted that in case the lockdown is relaxed, Kenya will definitely experience a surge in the infections before the situation stabilises," he said, just before President Uhuru Kenyatta reopened the economy on Monday. Waititu is a professor of statistics at the Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology. He called for caution even as the economy reopens, saying Kenya's Covid-19 recovery rate is very low at 32.47 per cent. "Kenya needs to raise the recovery rate to a comfortable figure above 60 per cent to release pressure on the health system," he said.  Edited by R.Wamochie