Kenya does not have any mass testing programme for Covid-19. So far the total number of cases is a result of targeted testing or from individuals and companies that can afford testing or the testing of patients showing symptoms. The question to ask is, what do the test numbers tell us about the disease in the population? Epidemiologists have two definitions that are important in this regard, incidence and prevalence. The incidence rate for Covid-19 is the frequency of new occurrences in the studied population at risk of the disease arising in a given period of time. That means we count the new cases and relate that number to the population or better still to the population that is at risk. Covid-19 is such a new disease that we still do not know, accurately, who is at risk. There may be long-term effects or not. There are many unanswered questions. So the assumption, for now, should be that the 'population at risk' is the whole population. So the rising numbers, though still small compared to Europe and the Americas, should concern us because they continue to rise exponentially. There may not be anything 'African' that protects one from Covid-19. Prevalence is the frequency of occurrence at a given point in time. That is, if a sample is taken correctly at a point in time, say today, then the number of positive cases would give an indication of how much coronavirus there is in a community. So the daily number of cases could give one an idea, but the population from which the samples are drawn are not well defined. So people cannot identify well with the cases. To give an example, if you are not a truck driver are you at risk? What is special about truck drivers? Or a bank worker? And so on. So what can we understand about Covid-19 in Kenya as at July 2? Only the very obvious. That coronavirus is here among us, like in the rest of the world, and older people and those with chronic diseases are more likely to develop severe or critical disease. Dr Ayah is the director of Science & Technology Park at the University of Nairobi and the director of the University of California at San Francisco programmes in Kenya.