Members of Parliament have been called to special sittings this week for two crucial issues on the shaky camaraderie of President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. Senators will converge on Monday at 2pm to approve the third generation formula for revenue allocation among county governments. Members of the National Assembly will meet on Wednesday morning on the revenue question and the reconstitution of House committees. Speaker Justin Muturi's notice on the sitting indicates that MPs will consider the motion for approval of reconstitution of specified committees. The lawmakers will also consider the nomination of Janet Gathungu as Auditor General; and the third generation formula for revenue allocation among counties. This will be upon its receipt from the Senate, Muturi said, adding that the House will also consider - at all stages - the County Allocation of Revenue Bill, 2020. “Any further legislative measures to cushion the country from the effects of Covid-19 upon receipt will also be considered,” the notice reads. ODM and Jubilee – being parties led by the handshake principals - have been picking fights over the committees’ impasse. National Assembly Minority leader John Mbadi, who raised a voice against the initial list presented by his Majority Leader Amos Kimunya, said they had reached a truce. Trouble started after Jubilee Vice chairman David Murathe said they (Jubilee) were extending a favour to ODM on the reconstitution of committees. But following days of intense negotiations, Mbadi told the Star - without revealing details - that there was a truce and that the House Business Committee was set to approve the new list on Monday. “We have looked at the list considering the concerns from ourselves and the Kieleweke team. We are satisfied with the outcome,” the Suba South MP said. Composition of the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee; Finance committee; and Delegated Legislation have been contentious. The concerns, especially by ODM insiders, were that there were too many of Deputy President William Ruto’s allies. Raila's allies stand to reap big in the latest agreement with impeccable parliamentary sources indicating that Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga would chair the Finance committee. Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo is poised to be vice chair of the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee which is to be chaired by Kangema MP Muturi Kigano. Wanga is therefore poised to take over from Kipkelion East MP Joseph Limo -  a DP William Ruto ally - and will be deputised by Roysambu MP Waihenya Ndirangu. The Star learned that ODM succeeded in replacing from JLAC names such as Minority Whip Emmanuel Wangwe and Samburu West MP Naisula Lesuuda. At the Finance committee, Jubilee resolved to remove Moses Lessonet and former Budget chairman Kimani Ichung’wa (Kikuyu MP) to create space for their handshake partners. Tiaty MP William Kamket is poised to chair the Delegated Legislation committee once led by Uasin Gishu Woman MP Gladys Shollei. MPs are expected to approve the changes on Wednesday, the source added, saying the same is likely to be case of the new revenue formula. The stalemate on the new formula – based on functions, population, and poverty levels - has dragged for a while with concerns the move would cost 18 counties about Sh17 billion. The Commission on Revenue Allocation’s proposal is premised on ‘cash follows functions’, giving priority to health funding - as based on population and poverty levels. The parameters are health at 17 per cent share; agriculture (10 per cent); other county services (18 per cent); basic minimum share (20 per cent); land area (8 per cent); roads (4 per cent); poverty (14 per cent); urban services (5 per cent); fiscal effort (2 per cent); and fiscal prudence (2 per cent). There is intense lobbying to defeat the proposal, with three others now put on the table for consideration. Senate Majority Whip Irungu Kang'ata (Murang'a) said they will leave it to members to decide the formula. His Makueni counterpart Mutula Kilonzo Jr held that the proposed formula is divisive and they will consider other options. “The problem is not the formula but how we mitigate the losses. We have all agreed that we need a new formula but not the one that was sneaked in,” he said. Charles Kibiru, chair of Finance and Budget, however said the formula is fair. “If adopted, the new share percentages will apply in 2021. For this FY status quo will remain because most counties have passed their budgets,” Kibiru said. Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka denied claims that President Kenyatta gave them ultimatums on the proposal. “It is a lie. It is us who told the President we will have a Kamukunji on Monday morning then a special sitting in the afternoon. There was no such ultimatum,” Lusaka said. Edited by Henry Makori