Creating avenues for county governments to take out loans would have made sense if Kenya were in a healthy debt position. However, we are too cautious and too careful so we can’t just allow counties to borrow anyhow and only rely on a hawk-eyed Treasury CS. Relying on Treasury to safeguard against unnecessary borrowing has not worked previously. The current CS, Ukur Yatani, is probably strict. Therefore we need serious discussion on the Public Debt and Borrowing Policy. We may need to find avenues, say statutory law amendments, to make the policy clear in law. And where does the Senate come in, especially in its role to protect devolution? How would the Senate protect devolution if there is no way for it to determine counties'level of indebtedness? This is a weakness. Establishment of the Public Debt Management Office is welcome. We have been calling for it and want one completely independent of the Treasury. We hope the Building Bridges Initiative will yield an independent Treasury as we proposed. It hasn't been easy to have an autonomous debt management office when it is domiciled at the Treasury. If we are to do that, we need some level of autonomy of the Treasury as well. An autonomous PDMO would be a sure way to tame the Executive’s appetite for borrowing. This is because the Executive, being a political creature, would always want to implement projects. What drives the decisions by the Executive is to win votes, and to win votes means implementing projects - even when there's no money. It would, therefore, be the responsibility of the debt management office to ensure borrowing is rationalised and aligned to the country's overall needs and economic stability. You cannot deny Jubilee has initiated a lot of projects, although many at inflated costs. But in the implementation of those projects, it is likely we have bitten off more than we can chew and cut our cloth a size too big, especially in preferring commercial loans - which are usually easy to come by. The National Assembly Minority leader spoke to the Star   