Eleven employees of the Export Processing Zone Authority have been ordered to self-quarantine after coming into contact with a staffer who contracted Covid-19. Benjamin Chesang, EPZA acting general manager in charge of investments and corporate communications, confirmed that the staffer, a driver, died of Covid-19. “The driver died of Covid-19, there is no contrary opinion. The 11 quarantined employees tested negative and a repeat testing exercise has been done on them today. Hopefully, all will return to work if they test negative,” he said. The Star established that most of the quarantined employees were from the transport department. Health officials from both Machakos and Kajiado counties on Thursday conducted tests on workers at the zone after 68 employees of New Wide Garments Ltd reportedly tested positive of the virus. “It’s possible that there are cases of Covid-19 at the zone since we are not immune to the virus,” Chesang told the Star in his office on Thursday. Chesang added, “Both the county governments of Machakos and Kajiado are following up the cases since EPZ lies in the two counties. Most of our employees live in Kitengela and Athi River towns.” The cases were reported barely a week after a local textile company was closed after two senior staffers tested positive. Mass Intimates Ltd was closed on July 10. Constructions works were ongoing at the company premises when the Star visited the zone on Thursday. “We were forced to self-quarantine for fear of having interacted with the deceased driver. We have been in quarantine for more than 14 days now, we all tested negative in the first test that was conducted by Lancet,” an EPZA employee told the Star at Mahalakshmi Garment Ltd before taking the second test. Chesang said some of the companies at the zone have been in compliance with the Health ministry’s directives in the fight against the virus. “EZA has tried to implement the protocols on Covid-19. We check temperatures of everyone visiting the zone, have handwashing points, sanitiser and ensure there is social distancing,” he said. The authority management on Thursday met investors to  emphasise the importance of complying with the regulations. The Export Processing Zone has over 100 companies most of which deal in exports with about 30,000 direct employees.   (edited by o. owino)