Engineer Abdulrazaq Ali, Elizabeth Rogo and Caroline Kittony-Waiyaki have been appointed as non-executive directors of Kenya Power. In the latest appointment by the board of directors, Vivienne Yeda and Sachen Gudka have also been appointed. The appointments come after five other directors recently tendered their resignation. The abrupt resignation exposed what could be deeper turf wars at the state listed electricity vendor. In a public notice, the electricity vendor said Adil Khawaja, Kairo Thuo, Wilson Kimutai Mugung’ei, Brenda Kokoi and Zipporah Kering had tendered resignation but did not state the reason for the abrupt departure. One of the five directors told the Star in confidence that they did not resign of their own volition. ''There is much to this resignation. Personally, I didn’t agree with the board on some of the decisions, however, that is not the reason why I left. Someone mighty influenced our decision," he said. He added that without independent people on the board, the public voice had been muted. ''The remaining individuals represent commercial interests. I wonder if any replacement is coming anytime soon, considering that an Annual General Meeting (AGM) must be called. Remember, the end year result is still pending,’’ he said. His sentiments come in the wake of reports that the government, with a controlling stake of 50.1 per cent, is keen on reshaping the company. The firm that enjoys monopoly in power distribution has been grappling with a confidence crisis, corruption allegations and dwindling revenues. An independent board member is a non-executive director who does not have any kind of relationship with the company that may affect their judgment. Abdulrazaq holds a master's degree in in civil engineering with 34 years of experience in public service. The board said Rogo, the founder and chief executive officer of Tsavo oilfield services has 19 years of experience in international engineering, operations, project management, consultancy , business development and management in oil and gas. While Kittony-Waiyaki is an advocate of the High Court with 29 years of experience in civil and commercial practice, Yeda, the current director general of East African Development Bank has expertise in foreign relations law. Gudka is a chattered accountant having qualified with Price Waterhouse in London.