The Ford Kenya faction led by Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi has accused ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi of interfering in the affairs of the party. Wamunyinyi - whose takeover of Ford Kenya is subject to an ongoing judicial process - told Mudavadi to keep off the affairs of the lion party and concentrate on his ANC, which is "currently burning from within". In a statement to newsrooms, Wamunyinyi said Mudavadi’s party has more problems. Hence, he wondered why the presidential hopeful is obsessed with the leadership of another party. "We have taken note and hold great reservations in how Hon. Musalia Mudavadi, the ANC leader, has chosen to interfere on a full time basis in Ford Kenya party issues,” said Wamunyinyi, who had laid claim to the interim leadership of Ford-K. “We want to urge Hon. Mudavadi to keep off Ford Kenya matters and leave it to ourselves who remain bona fide members. Needless to say, the embattled ANC leader has so much to deal with in his own party that has vehemently expressed displeasure in his leadership.” Mudavadi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula have of late been giving the impression of togetherness and camaraderie. At one time, the ANC leader linked ODM leader Raila Odinga with Ford Kenya woes, accusing him of sponsoring chaos in the party. The two have also held joint meetings in the Western region in the past weeks. “We further urge Hon. Mudavadi to feel free to take Hon. Wetang’ula with him at absolutely zero cost,” Wamunyinyi retorted. "Our new leadership remains vigilant and vibrant even as we enter a very definitive moment in the future of Ford Kenya." On May 31, Ford Kenya’s special NEC resolved to replace Wetang’ula with Wamunyinyi on an interim basis and retain Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu as secretary general. The party’s NEC accused Wetang’ula of gross misconduct and failing to champion unity in the political outfit. However, to ward off his dethronement, Wetang’ula moved to the Political Parties Dispute Tribunal to challenge the proposed leadership changes before withdrawing his case on June 8 when he requested the PPDT to refer the matter for resolution by internal party organs. Eight days later, he moved to the High Court where he obtained orders putting on hold the changes that would see Wamunyinyi take over as party leader, with Simiyu as secretary general. Wamunyinyi camp has also filed a constitutional petition at the High Court demanding that the court establishes if it has jurisdiction to hear the case. The Political Parties Act categorises the High Court as an appellate judicial institution in cases involving conflicts in political parties, hence it has no jurisdiction to hear cases of such nature as the court of first instance. Edited by F'Orieny