 Private security workers have criticised the government for failing to arm members with personal protective equipment to curb the spread of coronavirus. Through their union, the private guards have threatened to go on strike if their plight is not addressed. Kenya National Private Security Workers’ Union secretary-general Isaac Andabwa on Sunday said the state has ignored the plight of guards despite having been gazetted as essential service providers. “The government is ignoring the plight of guards in this country. There is nobody who cares about the issues we raise as guards despite complaining to the relevant authorities,” Andabwa said. He spoke during a press briefing with chief shop stewards representing more than 50 private security companies in Nairobi. He said ignoring the private guards who are in the frontline in the fight against Covid-19 encourages the spread of the virus by making the guards more vulnerable. Andabwa cited failure to implement the guards’ minimum wage of 18 per cent, lack of protective gear, lack of training on Covid-19 and failure of the government to allocate funds to private security unlike other professionals in the frontline in the fight against coronavirus. “Employers have failed to comply with the minimum wage bill of 18 per cent three years now since it was given to the guards by President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2018,” Andabwa said. He said some employers had instead reduced the salaries of guards and sacked some of their employees. Over 2,000 guards have been sacked since the virus struck in March according to the unionist. At least 50 guards belonging to a private company have been quarantined after testing positive of Covid-19. “Covid-19 has a lot of relationship with movement. The level of interaction of guards supersedes all other professionals in the country hence makes them more vulnerable and exposed to infections,” Andabwa said. There are over 700,000 guards across the country. Andabwa said the government should allocate funds to cushion the already suffering guards and pay those on duty some allowances since they were not only complimenting the work of national security agencies but also that of the Health Ministry in combating the spread of Covid-19. Andabwa said the union will on Monday petition the government to address the raised issues or they call for a national strike. “I have made communications to the ministries of Devolution, Interior and Health on guidelines on how we can assist the government in combating Covid-19. My letter has been ignored just like the 18 percent pay increase,” Andabwa said. He said employers should issue guards with face masks on a weekly basis. “Where are we in the government’s arrangement to provide essential service providers with Covid-19 allowances in the allocated funds? We are not enemies of the government.” Andabwa said guards were not second-hand citizens hence shouldn’t be treated by the government as such. “I am compelled to call for a strike, petition government tomorrow (Monday) for the 18 per cent pay increment to be paid by the employers in full arrears, guards to be issued with protective gear and capacitated on using the thermo guns.”  Edited by P.O