As last season ended in December, one player who breathed a sigh of relief as the curtains were brought to an end in the Kenya Hockey Union Premier League was definitely Blazers' prodigy Eleanor Chebet. Looking back at her performances, Chebet had not only exceeded her personal expectations but also stunned the hockey flaternity. With seven goals and five assists, she was only second best to Strathmore Scorpion's Gilly Okumu and Blazers' all-time top scorer Jacqueline Mwangi, joint top scorers with eight strikes each. If you want someone to dribble and smash the ball into the net, then look no further. If you want someone to run the game for you, get the team playing and set the tempo, then Chebet is your player. When you look at how Blazers go on attack; tearing teams apart with Chebet's fast feet and trademark scoring, it tells you how the promising teenager has taken the league by storm. Chebet guided the record champions to their 22nd title and her rise is sure to continue if her determination and scintillating first season performance is anything to go by. It was a brilliant season both at individual and team level for the youngster, who at just 19, is already showing an impressive ability to produce box office moments in semi-professional hockey. Many were stunned by her decision to choose Blazers over Orange Leonas and Sliders, who were gunning for her signature. However, despite being a huge risky, Chebet believed joining Blazers was worth trying. Blazers is a star-studed side that contributes majority of players to the national team and Chebet signing for the Kenyan queens was akin to being thrown into the deep end. During the 2020 Olympic Games qualifiers last year, Blazers had seven players in the national side, thus the competitiveness in the club. However, Chebet feels her decision to join the Tracy Karanja-captained side has paid dividends. "I don't regret my choice. If anything, it was the best I made as a player. Teaming up with top cream players is always an honour," she says. For Chebet, going toe-to-toe with Okumu and Mwangi — the team's all-time top scorer having netted over 200 goals for both club and country — is a remarkable achievement. She made 10 appearances in 14 games for the Blazers in the eight-team women's league. She produced memorable, game-changing contributions in at least six of the matches. Not bad for any player, let alone a teenager. Chebet certainly is a part of the future of Kenyan hockey. Precociously-gifted but with physicality beyond her age, the young forward has already been capped by the under 18 side. She captained the team in the 5-aside regional tournament held in Nairobi last year as the host team, Tausi, won the trophy. Her potential is immense no wonder she was in the provisional list for the Olympic qualifiers but could not make the traveling party to Stellenbosch, South Africa. Chebet rose through the ranks at St. Cecilia Misikhu Girls High School. The Bungoma County-based school is a household name in the game. Chebet guided the students to victory on three occasions in her four-year stint at the institution, between 2015 and 2018. In 2016, while in Form Two, they beat Nyanza's Sinyolo Girls at the national championships and were runners up the East Africa competition. The following year, they made a clean sweep to win both competitions, Sinyolo were again the victims in the regional tournament. The athletic player can play across the forward line. Glennis Namasake, a Blazers player and who coached Chebet at Misikhu convinced her to join the iconic team after her secondary education according to the player. "Glen was the reason why I opted for Blazers. She knew me very well and advised me that I better play for Blazers because I will gain valuable experience. It's easy to work with someone who knows you well and perhaps impossible to reject an opportunity to play for a team that had a well laid plan for me," Chebet points out. Chebet became a permanent figure for the better part of last season despite her initial struggles. Her progress particularly in the last four months before the conclusion of the league, left Blazers' staff excited. She has had to learn quickly, of course. She has never lacked confidence that's for sure but even at 18, there were little concerns about her consistency and willingness to influence games with goals and assists. She needed guidance and surely got it from coaches Jos Openda and Josephine Ataro, who are always screaming instructions on the touchline. In the field, Karanja and seasoned Mwangi provided the necessary support to the budding striker and so were the rest of her teammates. The third born in a family of four is a player both for the present and future. "She has an incredible thing that makes me have no doubt she can be an incredible player for the next 10 or 15 years. Every action is positive in training session. She's a huge competitor, she scores incredible goals, she is so fast, defensively strong and is a reality," says Ataro, a former international who had a decorated career with Blazers. "We can count on her for years to come because she has an incredible sense of creating goals and vision. I don't want to say anything wrong but Mwangi has the real talent for the national team in her hands. I saw many players in my life, I trained with incredible players  and Chebet will be one of them. She has the character to fight for a place in the national team and is a major part of Blazers. She will only get better through exposure with the national team," says the inspirational coach. "I know she's loved by Blazers' fans and appreciated far beyond the City Park Stadium. People who have played with her regularly or watched her will understand why. She's always been the player who makes something happen for you, sometimes out of nothing just like Mwangi. She is a prized asset, along with other upcoming young talents at the club." The youngster had no interest in joining other clubs that had expressed interest in her, insisting that she wanted to prove her doubters wrong. Competing with the likes of Mwangi, Audrey Omaido and the evergreen Maureen Okumu does not faze her, if anything it inspires her. "When I signed for Blazers, fans and players alike doubted if I had the capacity required to play for the club. I love a challenge and Jane Wafula, my teammate, also convinced me that Blazers was the ideal club for my growth. I am battling everyday to try and help the team win trophies. Every opportunity that I get I'll definitely take it with both hands and give it the best shot . So far so good in that respect," says Chebet, who hails from Kapsokwony in Trans Nzoia County. She has already ticked plenty of boxes. How long, one wonders, before her next target — winning the top scorers award? Chebet is set for a prominent role this season. Mwangi is in the twilight years of her career and Her appointment as the women's national team coach, that comes with added responsibility will surely be a blessing in disguise for Chebet, who is expected to lead the team upfront. Mwangi also chairs the Athletes' Committee in the African Hockey Federation. Chebet said she has learnt alot from Mwangi, her idol, and wants to emulate her. Mwangi has always been a threat and no matter how badly Blazers played, she was always a revelation. No wonder she is considered the best striker of the decade. "I have gained valuable experience for the short time I have been in the team and the best is yet to come. Playing alongside Mwangi has been sensational. She is the perfect example of what discipline, hardwork and patience can do to a sportsperson," says the open-minded striker. "Seven goals was a good return but remember this was only my first season and inexperience was a major undoing. I can be as good as anybody. My target for this season is to double my goals tally and win the top scorers gong... yes I can." Chebet, however, says in as much as more responsibility is expected from her going forward, there are certain aspects of her game that need to be fine-tuned. She is currently working on her fitness. "I analysed my performance during preseason and realised that I need to be more clinical in front of goal and put teams to the sword. I will also try to make half chances count since we have many creators in the team. I am working on  my dribbling skills too which I feel is wanting. All in all, I am as fit as ever and much ready to roar back," she says. The KHU league was suspended after just three matches into the new season following the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. Return to action is still uncertain as the government a week ago extended ban on gatherings for a further 30 days. Blazers will be looking to extend their dominance and continue their pursuit of record-breaking top flight points tally. Openda and Ataro's task will be to persuade their breakthrough stars to  stay and gain fulfilment in domestic challenges they have already conquered. Blazers are struggling financially after their 30-year sponsorship deal with telecommunication firm Telkom was ended last year. Lack of funds saw Chebet and Joan Anjao miss some games last season leading many to assume that the team is set to lose their promising players this season but the striker remains committed to the team. In addition to Chebet, there are numerous emerging talents at the various clubs which has sent tongues wagging that Kenya could be on course to replicate their lost glory of the '70s where the men's team was a force to reckon with in the world stage. The rapid rise of Chebet and others continues to cause a stir but it can only be good if the teenagers continue working hard in a bid to hit the ground running because they can only be judged by their performance. It is a good time to be a young, gifted hockey player in the Premier League, isn’t it?  Leonas' duo of Sheila Chenany and Rachael Ngari are also on their way to superstardom, Lynn Mwangi is trying to make the right back position at USIU Spartans her own. But Chebet looks a star in the making at one of this most successful club in the country and on the continental front as well and will make big strides once sporting activities resume. For Mwangi, the future looks bright indeed at the national team if she can integrate and harness these prospects. 