The ANC has nothing to do with a secret pre-election agreement purportedly signed between ODM leader Raila Odinga and Wiper's Kalonzo Musyoka for 2022, deputy party leader Ayub Savula has said. Savula said Amani National Congress would not be drawn into the controversy about the secret deal since the only agreement recognised by Nasa is the one signed by all affiliates and deposited with the Registrar of Political Parties as required by law. "As ANC we're aware the two had an agreement but ANC and Ford Kenya, which are other Nasa members, were not involved. It's an illegal pact, anyway, because the law does not recognise it," he said. ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna has denied that  the party entered into any agreement with the Wiper leader. Savula said ANC was focused on branding its leader Musalia Mudavadi as a candidate for the 2022 succession race. Speaking at Lwandeti when he inspected NG-CDF projects on Saturday, Savula said ANC was focused on branding and marketing its leader Musalia Mudavadi as a presidential candidate in 2022. “Let Kalonzo deal with his own issues. We as ANC are going to open offices in Central Kenya and do recruitment ahead of the next polls,” he said. Kalonzo has said that he is ready to abandon the Nasa coalition for a new one with Jubilee, terming Nasa dysfunctional. The legislator at the same time urged the Senate to suspend the contentious new revenue allocation Bill that has split the house. Savula said that the Senate should instead okay usage of the previous formula for disbursement of funds to counties rather than starving because of the impasse in the Senate and avoid unnecessary divisions. "This will allow time for reasoning that will ensure consensus on the adoption of the new formula at a later date," he said. He said that forcing the formula through would disadvantage some counties at a critical time when they need money to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. The proposed revenue sharing schedule has put the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga to the test, with Senate Majority leader Irungu Kang'ata saying the Jubilee wing will reconsider its stand on the BBI should ODM brigade fail to help them push through the new formula. Kang'ata said  Mt Kenya region supported the BBI because of a provision for one Oman one shilling principle. The new formula bases on the population as opposed to sizes of county to share revenue. Savula  urged President Kenyatta not to lock down the country because of the soaring Covid-19 cases. "By closing some counties to contain the pandemic the President will be doing nothing. The relaxing of the containment measures has allowed people to travel and spread the virus in villages," he said. He said that counties should be left to manage the pandemic with supervision by the national government. "Most counties are not prepared to deal with the pandemic and leaving the issue to them would be disastrous," he said. Edited by Henry Makori.