 The "foolproof one-stop" automated system being rolled out by the Lands ministry will substantially reduce time and cut the cost of transactions, according to Cabinet Secretary Faridah Karoney. The National Land Information Management System (NLIMS) will provide a one-stop shop for land administration to cure the manipulation and theft of land documents, the CS virtually told the Senate ICT committee. “Once we go live this year, the re-engineering of land registration processes will make registration of property simpler and more cost effective,” Karoney said. She had been asked to explain her ministry's technical preparedness to respond to Covid-19 pandemic and the status of the digitisation of the land registries. The nine-member committee chaired by Baringo Senator Gideon Moi also sought to know the technological solutions being deployed for the collection and management of data while guarding privacy. The CS said the NLIMS will provide an interface with business registration services, the registrar of persons, county governments, the National Land Commission, Kenya Revenue Authority and professional bodies. “The data in the system will facilitate investigative and/or court processes initiated by such agencies as the Judiciary, EACC, DCI, DPP and the police.” Further, the system will make it easy for financial institutions to verify the ownership of property presented as security by borrowers. Property owners and the public will also have a single platform of verifying the ownership of properties. “The NLIMS will promote transparency, accountability and efficiency in land administration and management. It will reduce duplication in the storage of information and also make it possible to consolidate information,” Karoney told the committee. The system will run on a secure encrypted database and accessed only through a secure web service interface. “We are currently running system integrity/penetration tests,” the CS said. Karoney had been summoned by the Senate through the Lands and National Resources Committee over the closure of Central and Nairobi land registries. The committee, chaired by Senator Mwangi Githiomi (Nyandarua) is investigating the closure following a petition to the Senate by the Kenya Private Sector Alliance (Kepsa) which says the closure is affecting businesses. “There is an unprecedented rise in the number of cases of misplacement of records at the Lands Registry due to lack of a file tracking system at the Lands Registry and automation of the A-Book,” Kepsa chief executive Carole Karuga says in the petition.  - mwaniki fm