Residents of Lamu East in Lamu County are now feeling the effects of the war between the Executive and the Judiciary. Since January, most of the residents have had to either deal with atrocities against them out of court or cough up to Sh20,000 just to institute a court case. Most of the residents cannot afford this. There is no court in Lamu East, one of the only two sub-counties in Lamu County. Lamu West has two courts, one on the Lamu Island and another in Mpeketoni. According to Muslims for Human Rights assistant field and rapid response officer Habib Ali, most residents gave up trying to access justice ever since the mobile courts stopped. “The mobile courts used to help the Lamu East residents a lot. But since the budget cuts in the Judiciary, these mobile courts have stopped meaning justice has stopped for most of them,” said Ali. He spoke on Wednesday at Hindi, Lamu West during a “Street law” training by Muhuri. The training, under the Program for Legal Empowerment and Aid Delivery in Kenya (PLEAD), wants to strengthen the effective delivery of justice and to promote alternatives to imprisonment. “PLEAD also intends to reduce the number of pre-trial detainees by 30 per cent to combat prison overcrowding,” said Ernest Cornel, Muhuri’s communication, monitoring and evaluation officer. Before the budget cuts, mobile courts used to reach Lamu East four times a month. Each time a mobile court was in town, it used to handle an average of three cases, translating to an average of 12 cases in a month. “Today, anyone in Lamu East with grievances will have to wait for nature to take its cause. They say whatever happens happens. But this is dangerous because there is pent up anger which usually erupt at some point,” said Cornel. Cornel said for Lamu East residents to access the courts, they have to use a boat to get to Lamu West. Boat operators charged Sh3,000 per head for the private speed boats. Hiring a boat for a few hours costs Sh15,000. If opts to use the public speed boats, they are charged Sh2,000 per head. Ali and Cornel say this is just a one-way trip by boat. This is apart from the coast of moving by road to the courts themselves. There are legal fees to contend with. To open a file in court costs Sh3,000. “We have not even talked about the lawyer’s fee, accommodation and food if one is determined to have their case heard,” said Ali. Some of the locals at the training on Wednesday said they have not even thought about moving to court because they fear being involved in courts or they do not have the money to institute one. Joyce Wanjiru, John Njoroge and Daniel Mwangi are just three of hundreds of locals who have borne the brunt of the fight between President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Executive and Chief Justice David Maraga’s Judiciary. Wanjiru, who has been having a property dispute with her estranged husband since 2004, said she has been unable to get justice. “When I was finally convince to use the mobile courts, I was told they never come anymore. I felt like God does not want me to get justice,” said Wanjiru. Njoroge said a hippopotamus fatally attacked his brother in 2016, but the Kenya Wildlife Service is yet to compensate him. Mwangi said his 15-acre plot was registered under another person, despite developing it since 1999. Efforts to access justice for these people have been fruitless. Cornel said residents of Lamu county as a whole have had their cases delay in courts for long. The Judiciary was on track to reduce the case backlog but this has since been negatively affected by the war between them and the Executive. The residents now the cases take long to end, ostensibly because of few judiciary staff and lack of infrastructure. CJ Maraga, who is at loggerheads with Uhuru over the appointment of 41 judges, has numerously complained the budget cuts will cripple Judiciary functions. In June, Maraga said if the situation persists, land cases filed this year could be heard in 2022. “This is because we have 31 judges against 15,437 cases as of March 31, 2020,” Maraga said. In 2013-14 financial year, the National Assembly allocated to the Judiciary Sh17.8 billion, representing 0.99 per cent of the national budget. There has been declining budgetary allocation to the Judiciary over the years. In May, the Judiciary said reforms were on hold following a Sh23 billion budget deficit. The Judiciary Magazine released on May 15 said that the financial resource gap of Sh23.6 billion translates to 63 per cent of the total resource requirement for the FY 2020-21. On Wednesday, Lamu principal magistrate Allan Temba said the last mobile court sitting was in January. “In a month, we could hold four sittings and hear 12 cases in areas where residents faced difficulties accessing courts,” Temba said. Most of the cases involved defilement, theft, and violent attacks. “There is a lot of backlog. In Lamu East, for instance, a case drags because it takes time to ferry people to the Island where the court is. A month’s case can take up to six months,” Temba said. Ali and Cornel called on President Uhuru to fund the Judiciary well to alleviate these problems. “We can only cure this problem by funding the Judiciary properly,” Cornel said. During the training, lawyers drafted legal documents for locals, targeted at numerous authorities, at least to speed up justice. He said the situation would have been better if mobile court sessions were on.