Gusii leaders are divided on the region’s strategy for 2022 and each seems to be going his or her own way. The direction of the region had been discussed with some urgency last year, the aim being unity and a greater chance in the 2022 General Election to be in government. A section of Gusii leaders last year said the region needs to remain in the country’s governing structure. Now they are not saying much about coming together. The 2022 General Elections is shaping up as a war of individuals seeking to strengthen their own positions. Led by Kisii Senator Sam Ongeri during the Gesiaga Declaration last year, the leaders said the region must set its own political agenda so it is united for the polls. “Our political destiny should be determined as early as now. We have already made plans on how to move forward and achieve what we want in the coming government. "This can only be achieved if we come together as leaders and discuss the way forward for the political destiny of our community,” Ongeri said. The leaders were with interior CS Fred Matiang’i at Gesiaga High School in Nyamira county last year where they resolved to be united. That pledge now seems to be uncertain as no one who joined the unity declaration has come out to champion unity and set personal interests aside. Residents haven't heard much on unity before all else from Ongeri, Kisii Woman Representative Janet Ongera, Nyamira Governor John Nyagarama and Matiang'i. The Star has established that immediately after the start of the Building Bridges Initiative after the Handshake, leaders were divided on support for BBI. West Mugirango MP Vincent Kemosi on Thursday urged leaders to remain united and respect each other if they want to have a bright future and realise the ambitions of their people. “We should not have time as leaders to talk ill of each other. Instead, we should come together and find a way forward on various issues affecting our community,” Kemosi said on during an interview with a local radio station. Woman Representative Jerusha Momanyi said the region needs to be organised and have a strategy to be in government. “We need to change how we carry out our politics because we always need to be in government," she said. (Edited by V. Graham) 