Kakamega Homeboyz are keen to feature in the Football Kenya Federation Shield Cup next season. Head coach Nicholas Muyoti confirmed that he is in the process of convincing the team management to allow them make their debut in the event next season. Homeboyz are among a host of local clubs that have always given the tournament a wide berth in its past editions but Muyoti is determined  to have his proposal okayed by his bosses this time round with the preseason meeting set to be held in the course of the month. The youthful tactician said the club should consider playing in the tournament by virtue of having deeper pockets, thanks to the sponsorship deal with the county government of Kakamega. He said the tournament will hand his second string squad the platform to express themselves as well as muscle for an opportunity to represent the country in the Caf Confederations Cup. “We are likely to have a pre-season meeting with the management in the course of the month and one of the proposal I am looking to present to them is the intention of the team to play in the Shield Cup. “I have almost 30 players at my disposal and by playing in the tournament, I will be able to gauge them since playing time in the league matches is limited. “It is the dream of every player to play at the continental level and we know the winner of the cup represents the country in the Confederations Cup. We have what it takes to win it and enter the continental level,” he said. Homeboyz, who were in contention for the KPL title before FKF controversially concluded the season in April, will, in the meantime be seeking to bring in at least three new players in the transfer window. Muyoti said he will be aiming to strengthen his defence line which he noted was their weakest point in the past campaign. The former Nzoia Sugar coach disclosed his plan to inject new defensive tactics to seal the loopholes. “We had the second best attacking front last season but our defence was a little bit shaky. For us to win trophies, we have to rectify the defensive mistakes we had last season. I have a strong squad at the moment but for continuity purposes, I am hoping to bring in at least three new players to improve on our weak areas,”’ he added.