Persons living with HIV in Lamu have expressed frustration at not being able to access their medication during the Covid-19 pandemic. County HIV-Aids Prevalence and Infection office records show that at least 2,600 people are living with HIV. The hardest-hit are those living in remote villages who have now been forced to travel hundreds of kilometres to a few dispensaries that have stocked the drugs. Their spokesperson Nancy Auma, who has lived with HIV for over 13 years, revealed that it has been impossible for them to be consistent with their medication as most of the time, replacing the drugs when they run out has been an uphill task. Auma said most remote villages are very far from the clinics, therefore, travelling to the facilities has also been a challenge as many are unable to cover the cost. Those affected have called on the Ministry of Health to provide easy access of ARVs in remote areas. They have also appealed to the county government to intervene and deliver the drugs to the patients’ doorsteps as many are unable to leave their homes for fear of contracting coronavirus. “We are among groups of people whose immunity has been compromised. We are doing all we can to stay safe and because of that some of us are afraid to travel in search of medication when we run out of stock,” Auma said. Bernand Kinyanjui, who has lived with the virus for over 20 years, urged the ministry to give them a three-month supply of ARVs instead of short-term dosage that runs out fast. “Some of us live is villages which require us to part with not less than Sh1,500 as transport to and from the clinics,” he said. HIV/Aids Prevalence and Infection officer Fatma Bunu admitted that hundreds of patients had not been consistent in picking up their ARVs since the pandemic began. She also revealed that out of the known 2,838 positive cases in Lamu, only 1,600 are on medication. She said self-stigma and societal discrimination are among the reasons why hundreds of HIV positive individuals refuse to disclose their status. Mpeketoni in Lamu West has the highest HIV prevalence and new infections with more than 500 HIV positive cases followed by Lamu Island with over 300 cases. Witu and Hindi divisions have over 200 cases each. Bunu urged the community to accommodate persons living with HIV to encourage  more disclosures. “We are aware of the challenges and are making plans to grant their request to reduce travelling expenses.”  Edited by R.Wamochie