 The People's Democratic Party has resolved to support President Uhuru Kenyatta's national unity agenda manifested by the Building Bridges Initiative. PDP's National Executive Council meeting held on Monday also allowed party leader Omingo Magara to seek alliances ahead of 2022. The party is the latest in a growing list to support the BBI and the handshake between the President and ODM leader Raila Odinga. Wiper, ODM, Kanu and Chama Cha Mashinani support the President's Jubilee administration amid a falling out between Uhuru and his deputy William Ruto. The pacts have been linked to the BBI recommendations. The much anticipated BBI report is expected to make far-reaching changes to the governance structure to enhance inclusiveness. Sources say the report creates the position of prime minister with two deputies. The PM will be picked by the President from among MPs in the majority party in Parliament. On Friday, Magara, the former South Mugirango MP, told the Star that the party strongly supports the handshake and the BBI. “After the NEC meeting, PDP will start negotiations with other parties with a view of positioning itself as the party of choice in the 2022 general election,” Magara told the Star. PDP will continue supporting Uhuru and Raila to bring Kenyans together and end electoral chaos, Magara said. “The President has our unequivocal support even as we wait for the BBI report. The future of this country is in the BBI and we as PDP want to be part of that big agenda,” he said. Magara said that PDP will offer its support to the BBI both in Parliament and outside the bicameral house. “We want to ensure that the President delivers on his Big Four Agenda as well as his legacy projects,” he noted. The NEC meeting also resolved to embark on a re-branding and popularisation programme at the grassroots. Already, key leaders from the region are keen to position the PDP as a national party to serve Gusii community interests. "It is high time that we reengineer our PDP party because we can't walk back into slavery when we have multiparty democracy. I don't support the idea of killing many political parties," Magara told the Star. The popularisation rallies would be followed by a membership drive across the country. (edited by o. owino)