A group of rowdy youth on Monday evening stormed a private holding centre for mentally ill people in Shanzu and demanded its closure. The youth, most of whom intoxicated, claimed the holding centre is a risk to residents' health as some of the recovering mentally ill patients have Covid-19. They threatened to burn down the facility. But proprietor Amina Abdalla denied the claim. She, however, admitted that before they moved to Shanzu, they had five Covid-19 cases at their previous station but all have fully recovered. There are no new cases, she said. “This is a project that I started months ago and there were five of them who tested positive for Covid-19 but we managed them until they recovered and turned negative,” Abdalla said. “None of the patients here is Covid-19 positive.” The facility was first established at the Kenya Coast National Polytechnic in Mvita subcounty about four months ago. However, it had to be relocated to Shanzu after the institution sought to begin renovations in preparation for reopening. The facility is about three weeks old in Shanzu. On Monday, police were called in to disperse the rowdy youth. Three people were arrested. Police said someone neighbouring the facility had incited the youth. “We do not want people bringing corona here! We do not want to be locked down like Old Town!” the youth shouted. Roseline Wamaitha, a neighbour who was arrested together with her son, said Shanzu has not reported any case of Covid-19 and they would like to keep it that way. “But now, for the last two to three weeks, people whom we don’t know have been brought here,” Wamaitha said. She said there are 55 patients crammed in the three-bedroom house, a claim proprietor Abdalla refuted. Abdalla said there are only 38 recovering patients after 17 of them recovered fully and were discharged. She said they are now looking for another place to relocate the facility. “I will not abandon these patients. They have become my responsibility. I do not want them in an environment that is not welcoming to them because it will hinder their recovery. “I am looking for another place so we can move out of here because the neighbours do not want them here,” she said. Wamaitha said the patients should be relocated to Port Reitz Mental Hospital. Lucas Bindi, a next door neighbour, said his eight-year-old daughter took a photo, from their balcony, of a man in his mid-50s taking a bath in the middle of the compound. “You can imagine what this does to my daughter psychologically,” Bindi said. He accused Abdalla of doing business with the mentally ill patients at the expense of the neighbours morals and comfort. But Abdalla said she has been using her own funds to take care of the patients. No one pays to be held at the centre. Bindi said they have no problem with the project but they should have been consulted before the holding centre was set up in their neighbourhood. “It is 10 times better to have Covid-19 patients around. We will take care of them. But mentally ill people with corona? There is no telling what they may do. They are mentally unstable,” Bindi said. However, Abdalla said the statement shows society has been looking down upon and neglecting persons with mental challenges. She said a mental problem is a disease like any other and can affect anyone at any stage of growth. “Our facility holds persons who were once successful entrepreneurs, professionals, university students who underwent depression, a qualified electrician, a professional hairdresser and elderly persons who underwent family neglect,” Abdalla said. She said the whole matter was planned and took a political angle when the rowdy youths stormed the premises. Abdalla unsuccessfully vied for the Kisauni MP seat in 2013. During the chaos, county public health chief officer Aisha Abubakar and her team were in the facility together with Abdalla and three of the neighbours to try and find an amicable solution. The meeting was also meant to deescalate fears that the patients had Covid-19 and could spread it. Following the chaos, the county officials refused to address the journalists, saying they would issue a statement later. The project, which has blessings from the county government, has been hailed as one of the best in the area. The county says it takes care of the mostly neglected members of society. The county has been providing medicine to the patients in the centre. ANC national chairman Kelvin Lunani said, “There is a survey that needs to be done before such a project is set up. There are a lot of funds for Covid-19. Use these funds to do a survey." He said the county has been biased in the way it is addressing the issue. Edited by A.N