The Senate Majority Whip Irungu Kang'ata has now threatened to take action against Jubilee Senators who on Tuesday defied the government's stand on the counties' revenue sharing formula. Kang'ata's motion seeking to amend the Senate Finance Committee report to have the application of the new formula postponed to 2022 flopped on the Senate floor after 25 senators voted against it. Twenty-two senators voted for the motion. Kang'ata had argued that the postponement would be a win-win situation for all senators. Moments after the Senate was adjourned, Kang'ata said that they will soon crack the whip on those who shot down his motion. "There were some senators who are in positions of leadership in the party who decided on their own motion to go against the official position of the government. We expect some remedial action to be taken against them," he said. Speaking during an interview on Citizen TV, the Majority Whip said once a senator who occupies a leadership post votes against the government's position, he or she must expect some sanctions. "I have no doubt that that very soon we shall be cracking the whip of the party against those who went against the official government business that was before the House," the Murang'a Senator said. Sakaja had moved a motion on a formula he proposed to counter the disputed one fronted by the House Finance and Budget Committee. However, the debate was cut short after Deputy Speaker Margaret Kamar adjourned the stormy sitting at 9.05 pm before members could take a vote on the motion. Speaker Kenneth Lusaka will now have to gazette a special sitting for the members to conclude the debate and vote. Should he fail to gazette a sitting then the debate will resume next Tuesday. Among the Jubilee Senators who are now likely to be targeted by the party include Johnson Sakaja (Nairobi), Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet), Anwar Loitiptip (Lamu) and Fatuma Dullo (Isiolo). A majority of Senators on Tuesday appeared to disregard their party leaders and plotted major amendments to the counties' revenue sharing formula in a day of heightened political drama. A faction coalescing around proposals by Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja turned up in the House clad in ties branded in national colours, in a solidarity show. The 27 senators had earlier met at Panafric Hotel to scheme their strategy and to defeat a spirited effort to postpone debate on the third generation formula for a fifth time.