Kenyan Premier League side Nzoia Sugar are seeking to raise Sh33 million for the forthcoming season after President Uhuru Kenyatta boosted them with Sh2 million yesterday. Uhuru handed the donation and at the same time officially unveiled the club's new 51-seater capacity bus at Harambee House. The brief ceremony put to an end the club's three-year wait for the bus which was promised and gifted to them by Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa. All the five governors from the Western region and COTU secretary general, Francis Atwoli were present during hand over ceremony. The club's chairman Evance Kadenge said their immediate target is to raise the remaining bit of their budget for the new season. The soft spoken administrator said Uhuru's donation would spur them to mount a spirited hunt for a shirt sponsor in a bid to raise  more funds for the new season. “We are now looking for 33 million for the new season after President Uhuru gave us two million to start us off our plans for the new season. Our initial budget was 35 million and we hope we will get a shirt sponsor who will complement the efforts by our parent sponsor. We are grateful to the President for gracing the event and his donation,” he said In the meantime,Kadenge ruled out shipping in a handful of new and experienced recruits in the transfer window. He said the club will stick to their culture of spotting and promoting raw talent from the region unlike most KPL clubs who prefer senior players. He expressed faith that his priced stars, who steered the club to escape relegation,  last season will not be lured to sign elsewhere “We do not want to sign many players this time round but if need be, we will conduct trials and bring in a handful of promising players. We also want to retain the players whom we have at the moment for they will help the new ones adapt in the league with ease,” he said. At the same time, Kadenge said they are likely to sign a youthful coach to fill in the void left by Collins 'Korea' Omondi who was shown the door in March. The team has since been under the tutelage of Sylvester Mulukurwa who served as Omondi's assistant. “We may bring in a new coach to work with the other members of the technical bench. We have a number of names whom we are courting but we will make a decision after the board sits to deliberate on the same," he added