There was a familiar occurrence every time Ulinzi Stars were in action for the better part of their last 15 years. A striker would be tussling for the ball with the soldiers’ no nonsense defender Geoffrey ‘Koki’ Kokoyo and moments later, he would be writhing on the ground in agony as his tormentor walked away nonplused. Such was the take no prisoners attitude of Kokoyo that made him one of the most feared defenders in the country and won him the 2010 Kenya Premier League defender of the year gong. It did not matter who it was! George Blackberry Odhiambo, Allan Wanga, Michael Olunga, Danny Serenkuma, Jacques Tuyisenge, Meddie Kagere, Jesse Were or Timothy Otieno among others as long as one crossed Koki’s path, you were fair game. To show just how the tough as nails defender timed his tackles to precision, he never received a single red card despite many strikers lamenting that he played ‘rough’. “I never got a red card in the field but I got controversial one in the tunnels before heading to a match against Tusker in Afraha,” Kokoyo revealed. Outside the field of play, Kokoyo casts away his serious demeanor on the field. An avid fan of Lingala, the defender indulges in a carefree life away from football going for swimming and watching comedies. When he began playing football in the early 90’s at the Babadogo grounds, Kokoyo never intended to be a defender. In fact, he was among the most feared strikers for Mathare Youth Sports Association (MYSA) Under-12 side, Santiago. “I started receiving awards at an early age of 12 years when I got a medal for being the top scorer in MYSA league,” recalled Kokoyo. The youngster used to go to watch Premier League matches whenever opportunity arose at either Ruaraka grounds or Moi International Sports Centre (MISC), Kasarani Stadium. “I used to study a lot both in and outside the pitch and I always dreamt of aping my idols in the game,” noted Kokoyo. His passion was following Tusker then known as Kenya Breweries Football Club.He also had an affinity for Gor Mahia. “I can’t pin-point an individual who made me take up football because I used to watch Breweries now Tusker and Gor. I can tell you I used to follow and learn from every team player that I came across including the late Steve Odiaga, Josiah Ougo and Bernard Agina just to mention but a few,” he recounted. By watching live football matches including the star-studded Nigerian Olympic champions play against Harambee Stars, Kokoyo knew football could change his life. “I wanted to play professional football and win trophies as well as to be recognised but unfortunately the professional path abroad never came my way,” he rued. Koki’s performances in lower football league had attracted the attention of several clubs while he was still in Kamukunji High School, where he played along many other future stars Dennis Oliech and McDonald Mariga. “My big break came when I was signed by Premier League side, AFC Leopards and also called up to the junior national Under-17 team,” said Kokoyo. This opportunity is one that he grasped with both hands and ever a focused individual, he never looked back from there on. His display for the national Under-17 side, where then Ulinzi Stars’ tactician Yusuf Chippo was in charge was soon rewarded. Kokoyo would join Ulinzi layer, going on for military training before returning to play for the soldiers. “I learnt a lot from coach Chippo from the U-17 up to Premier League when he used to coach me at Ulinzi Stars as we won the league as well in 2004/05 and up-to-date, we still talk and he advises me regularly,” Kokoyo pointed out. As his career took off with the soldiers, the displays would attract the attention of national team selectors. Kokoyo would become a regular for the national team at a period when Kenya was not making inroads in International qualifiers. “All I can say is that my international career never went as I wanted because first I never won any trophy with the national team. We never even qualified for African Cup of Nations or even the World Cup but I know maybe I might achieve that on another level in the future,” he said. Despite his regrets at the international level with Harambee Stars, Kokoyo is among the most successful players locally having won four league titles with Ulinzi Stars. “I have realised my dream in the Kenyan Premier League by winning the trophy 4 times in the year. I also relish the fact that Ulinzi won the inaugural KPL Top 8 tournament in Kenya,” he noted. The defender continued: “I also managed to get several individual commendations. I was awarded the best defender in 2010 and again my club also awarded me in the 1st club awards ceremony as the best defender too in 2013.” Kokoyo also was awarded the 2nd runners up best defender in the Kenyan Premier League in 2015. Despite his stellar career with the soldiers, failure to make an impact in regional and continental competitions gnaws at his ultra competitive spirit. Ever a person who never shows away from shouldering responsibility, Kokoyo blames himself for Ulinzi’s failure to retain their KPL title in 2011. “My lowest moment was in 2011 when we were to clinch the league for the 2nd year running but I lost the ball and we went on to concede. We lost the match against City Stars and Tusker pipped us to the title,” he regretted. Kokoyo pays homage to his youth coach at Babadogo Dick ‘Zagallo’ as well as Ulinzi’s current coach Benjamin Nyangweso. He credits them alongside Chippo as the tacticians responsible for shaping his long career. Despite his reputation as tough defender, Kokoyo gets shivers at the mention of former International striker John Baraza (current Sofapaka coach). He touts him as his most difficult opponent. “To be honest, most strikers I ever played against were tricky in different ways. But the one who made me have sleepless nights was John Baraza. The guy used to sneak up on you and if you go to sleep, you get surprised with a goal, so concentrating on him was a big job,” Kokoyo said. With retirement upon him, Kokoyo looks forward to giving back to the society. “I like the upcoming players not to follow the route we followed. They need to get a different experience. Since I am a Caf Level ‘C’ coach, I would love to coach and share my experience with young budding players. I would also want to venture into business,” he concludes. While his future outside the football pitch remains unclear, what is certain is that the current crop of strikers will breath easy once Kokoyo hangs up his boots for good.