@alalmaurice Kisumu Health and Sanitation executive Boaz Nyunya has pledged to transform the sector for better service delivery. Nyunya was sworn in on Thursday by Kisumu principal magistrate Joan Wambilianga after his nomination was approved by county assembly in May. He acknowledged the challenges bedevilling the sector and called on the collective responsibility of all stakeholders for better health provision. “I am not a magician who can single-handedly run the docket. We can only transform our health provision through teamwork,” Nyunya said. He promised to work with health workers and unions to ensure their welfare is well taken care of to discharge their mandates and effectively serve residents. Nyunya also called on health providers to embrace dialogue in case of grievances. Governor Anyang' Nyong’o appointed Nyunya to the position after he moved Judith Miguda to Business and Cooperative Marketing docket three months ago. Nyong’o has been the acting Health executive. Miguda took over from Rosemary Obara who was sacked last year. Energy executive Nerry Achar, who steps aside this month to allow him conclude a judicial matter, acted as Health CEC before Miguda was vetted, approved and sworn in. Nyong’o said Nyunya comes with a wealth of knowledge, practice and management in the healthcare sector. “It is that wealth of experience that he is bringing on board at a time that we are not only rebranding the health sector but implementing a very well-thought-out healthcare system for Kisumu,” he said. He told Nyunya that residents deserve and have a right to quality service delivery. Nyong’o urged residents to continue adhering to health directives to curb the spread of the coronavirus. He said there are enhanced Covid-19 containment measures in place. “We want to assure the public that we have enhanced surveillance both at the border entry points and in the villages following the partial opening up of the country,” he said. Nyong’o said, “My plea to our people is to exercise responsible behaviour. The first line of defence against this pandemic is how we conduct ourselves.” On health workers' grievances, Nyong’o said they can best achieve their welfare through proper engagement. Deputy Governor Mathews Owili and speaker Elisha Oraro asked Nyunya to focus on improving healthcare provision. “We needs you to use your experience in health to improve services to our people,” Owili said. He said Kisumu has not recorded many Covid-19 cases despite being a transit city due to stringent measures in place. Oraro said that the assembly will oversight Nyunya for efficient services in the docket. (edited by o. owino)