The number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in Kenya rose to 13,353, after 603 more people tested positive. The new positives were drawn from the 5,724 people whose samples were tested. Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe said nine patients succumbed to the disease in the last 24 hours, bringing the fatality count to 234. "In terms of gender 361 are males and 242 are females. Age wise, the youngest is a seven month old infant, while the oldest is 86 years," Kagwe said in a statement. The 603 cases are distributed in Nairobi 441, Kiambu 44, Kajiado 29, Mombasa 22, Busia 7, Nakuru 17, Kilifi 10, Machakos six, Kisii six, Makueni five, Muranga three, Nyeri two, Bungoma two, and one each in Kakamega, Kericho, Kisumu, Kwale, Lamu, Narok, Tharaka Nithi, Garissa and Uasin Gishu. Kagwe said 682 patients had recovered from the disease. "From this figure, 562 have been under home-based care, while 120 have been discharged from various hospitals, bringing the total number of recoveries so far to 5,122," he said. On Saturday, Kagwe urged Kenyans to save each other from the virus as the numbers of positive cases go up by the day. The CS was visiting Embu to asses the county’s preparedness to handle Covid-19. The county has recorded two positive cases that recovered. Twenty-one people are in quarantine. Giving the daily briefing in Embu, Kagwe said personal responsibility means saving yourself and saving another person. "This disease is here with us. We must invest to fight the virus and take individual responsibility to save your child, your mother, your father, your friend. Let’s save each other." "You save me, I save you. That is what is called personal responsibility. If we agree, we are going to save each other. Take the responsibility of saving your family, friends and the public in general. And by observing the containment measures we can do that," Kagwe said. He asked people to assume that the person beside them is positive and if they approach them they might get the virus. "Follow the measures in place and we can save each other," the CS said. He praised Embu county for establishihng more than 360 beds and an additional 18 ICU beds to manage Covid-19.