There was a standoff on Monday morning as a section of Eastleigh residents held protests on the streets. The residents want the government to provide relief food and allow them to access the estate in order to collect their wages and also do business. This comes after the government issued a cessation of movement directive of 15 days aimed to curb the spread of Coronavirus in Eastleigh estate. The directive which took effective on May 6, 2020, has since then made life of most Eastleigh residents unbearable. Eastleigh Estate has the highest number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in Nairobi County. The protests were held along 1st Avenue. Some of the residents said they were blocked from accessing the estate and had not yet been given their wages. Others who live within the estate, claimed they have not reported to their places of work since Friday which has hindered them to find means to provide for their families. “I work in Huruma as a carpenter but have not gone to my shop since Friday. I don’t even know if the furniture is safe or if the store has been raided. I have been surviving on the little profit I had gotten before,” said Jeremiah Ouma, carpenter. Ouma, who is a father to three children aged 9 months, three years and 10 years explained that he had customers scheduled to pick up their furniture but that will not happen until the cessation period ends. Nelima Mwende, who is a Mama Mboga said business has been unusual. “I pick my vegetables on a daily at Marikiti (Wakulima market) but this has not happened since Friday because we are not allowed to go outside. How does the government want us to survive,?’ she posed. Last week, the Eastleigh Youth Association decried that the cessation has left youths unhappy, stranded and unemployed. With the cessation, public transport into and out of Eastleigh has been grounded, leaving matatu crew stranded. Matatus terminating their journey in Eastleigh include Number 4, 6, Forward travellers from Kayole and Arbab Sacco from South C estate and Mombasa Road. This led to concerns being raised that the cessation might lead youths to engage in violence and theft. On Friday, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’ i on instructions from President Uhuru Kenyatta met members of the Eastleigh Business Community to discuss collaborative ways of battling Covid-19. It was emphasized that the best way the community can curb the spread of Covid-19 is by observing the law and guidelines