The government has been urged to prioritise sexual and reproductive health even as it tackles Covid-19. Activists worry that with reports of reduced hospital visits, there is a likelihood that reproductive health will suffer neglect. This may lead to increased cases of unplanned pregnancies and an increase of sexually transmitted infections such as HIV, gonorrhoea and syphilis. DSW Kenya, a German reproductive health advocacy organisation with operations in Kenya, warns that forgetting sexual and reproductive healthcare will erode the gains made in the past decade. “During times of health crises such as the Covid-19 pandemic, it is expected that our healthcare system will be pushed to the limit. It is also expected that resources will be redirected to deal with the crisis at hand, leading to deprioritisation of other areas of healthcare,” DSW country director Evelyn Samba argues. She states that one critical health programme likely to be undermined by the Covid-19 pandemic response is the Reproductive, Maternal, Newborn, Child and Adolescent Health (RMNCAH) programme, both at national and county levels. Samba notes, “As Kenya battles Covid-19, Kenyan women (and their partners) still need to have a satisfying and safe sex life, choose if and when they want to have children." The World Health Organisation, in a fact-sheet titled Disaster Risk Management for Health - Sexual and Reproductive Health, identifies that in times of crisis, disruption in reproductive health services can lead to a range of adverse outcomes. The fact sheet identifies negative outcomes, including an increase in sexually transmitted infections, possible spread of HIV, increased unintended pregnancies and unsafe abortions, as well as maternal and neonatal deaths. In Kenya, the most common STIs include HIV, Human Papillomavirus, bacterial vaginosis, genital herpes, chlamydia, gonorrhoea and syphilis. On the other hand, the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), in its publication Reproductive Health for Communities in Crisis, describes how in times of crisis, reproductive health needs are likely to be overlooked. Samba says these are just some of the pointers to a grim future if sexual and reproductive health matters are not given priority at such a time. She states that the national and county governments should keep providing reproductive healthcare services. At this time of crisis, that would mean at the very minimum, the public health sector is able to address complications of pregnancy and delivery, the transmission of STIs, including HIV-Aids, adolescent sexual and reproductive health concerns, and access to condoms and other contraceptives. Kenya has been struggling with sexual and reproductive healthcare issues. The rate of preventable maternal deaths remains high at 362 per 100,000 live births, according to the Kenyan Demographic and Health Survey. "In a budget analysis our organisation conducted in nine counties with funding commitments (family planning costed implementation plans) in the 2018-19 fiscal year, all nine counties invested less in their family planning programmes than they needed to,” Samba states, arguing that in light of the Covid-19 crisis, this dire situation could worsen if Kenya does not pay attention to reproductive healthcare. Last week, the Ministry of Education raised concerns that the prolonged period of school closure will lead to increased cases of early pregnancies. “Schools and learning centres are used by communities to address health-related issues, including mental health and psychosocial support, which the most vulnerable students rely on for their wellbeing and development in order to learn,” a ministry report read.  (Edited by F'Orieny)