A herbalist and businessman at the centre of a Sh21 million dispute with the Assets Recovery Agency want the agency stripped of its powers. The duo has asked a court to review its order directing the funds to be deposited at the agency’s account at the Central Bank of Kenya. Justice Dora Chepkwony is to issue her judgment on May 15. In the case, herbalist Stephen Vicker Mangira and Nabil Loo Mohammed are seeking to have the funds and high-end vehicles preserved by the court, instead of ARA, given that they have already been produced as exhibits. A team that conducted the raid at a Nyali hotel in 2017 is said to have recovered Sh18.5 million from Mangira’s vehicle, plus some $1,500, and Sh340,000 from a Tanzanian national, Bakari Kila Bakari. Mangira’s Sh2.6 million in a bank account in Kericho was also frozen. The sum, plus a number of high-end vehicles, form part of a criminal case against Mangira, Mohammed, Bakari and a fourth foreign suspect who skipped bail in March 2017. The four are facing charges of conspiracy to traffic 540.88 grammes of heroin with a market value of Sh.1.6 million, while Mangira was also separately charged with money laundering, a charge that was later changed to unlawfully obtaining the money. Nabil also faces a separate count of trafficking drugs, which were allegedly recovered from his vehicle. Their lawyer, Kinyua Kamunde, has questioned why the two foreigners were released on a lower bond of Sh2 million, while the Kenyans, who are not flight risks, were denied bond and released one year later on a Sh3 million bond. Bakari is facing money laundering charges over the dollars and more than Sh340,000. The ARA wants the funds moved from the court’s bank account into their account for preservation. But the accused have opposed the idea. "The funds cannot be better preserved than they currently are. You should reject the notion that those funds would be safer in the hands of an amorphous body that operates like a private company than they would if they remain under the control of the court of law established under the Constitution,” Kamunde said. He filed a suit seeking to declare the ARA an illegal entity. A ruling on the case was scheduled for June 22 last year but was deferred to July 25, with the file being placed on notice by Justice P.J Otieno. If a memo by Chief Justice David Maraga over the delivery of all pending judgments and rulings by May is anything to go by, Justice P.J Otieno will be expected to make a ruling on the legality of ARA this month. The accused also seek to have the court terminate the case, compel the ARA to terminate the forfeiture proceedings and challenge the constitutionality of most provisions of the Proceeds of Crime and Anti-Money Laundering Act (POCAMLA). In the petition filed in January 2019, Mangira and Nabil have sued former senior principal magistrate Shanzu, Diana Mochache, Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji, who was a senior National Intelligence Service officer during the incident, Office of the DPP, the ARA, Muthoni Kimani, the Auditor General, the Controller of Budget, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, Hamisi Massa, the Assistant Inspector General of Police, and the Attorney General. In the ARA suit, besides the two suspects, Aki Motors and Ali Cars Limited have been listed as interested parties. Kamunde argues that in the absence of a forfeiture order, the court does not have any jurisdiction to hand over the money to the ARA. “Handing over the money to the applicant would amount to prejudging the application for a forfeiture order and thereby condemning my client without hearing him,” he argued. He said the ARA is challenging the independence of the Judiciary and questioning its ability to guarantee the safety of the funds. Kamunde argued that when his client is acquitted, that sum will be restored to him, yet POCAMLA puts the ARA under no obligation to surrender money it recovers to the consolidated fund. “That is the reason why ARA wishes to grab that money before judgment in the criminal case,” he said. The suspects were arrested on November 2, 2017, by a team led by Haji. “He (Haji) removed Sh20.6 million from the grove compartment and boot of Mangira’s vehicle and went with the keys,” the lawyer said. He also claims that some part of the cash was not declared in the inventory, which Haji allegedly did not sign. "The court should issue a declaration that the petitioners were under no obligation to disclose the source of their assets and that if they had such obligation, the officers should have obtained court orders to investigate the herbalist’s bank accounts. He earned the money from his practice as a mganga (traditional doctor),” Kamunde said.