Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha defended his ministry on the step taken to offer e-learning to students following the unexpected early closure of schools due to the novel coronavirus. Appearing before the National Assembly Education Committee on Thursday, the CS said the majority of the secondary school students have access to smartphones enabling them to access e-learning content being offered. “If you go to any secondary school, you will be shocked. It is only that we do not allow them. If we allowed them to carry phones to school, you will realise that all the secondary school students have smartphones," Magoha said. The CS also said that the schools will continue with the syllabus once schools resume. He ruled out the possibility of disadvantaged students being left out from e-learning. He was responding to the concern raised by Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali who said that disadvantaged learners risk being left behind by those privileged with access to online learning. "Learning will start from where they left the syllabus before we closed," the CS said. Magoha said that e-learning was purposely developed by the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD) to tame possible truancy during the unexpected long holidays. Basic Education PS Belio Kipsang said during the sittings that the ministry has widened its scope of engagement like using community radio stations to reach  children. The PS also said that the current coping mechanisms set up, including e-learning will not be part of examinations. “We will ensure that the current coping mechanisms set up, including the e-learning, are not part of our examinations so that none of our children are disadvantaged from lack of accessing the virtual lessons,” Kipsang said. He also said anybody who is offering to teach students without being qualified is undertaking an illegality. “ Anybody who is offering to teach students without being qualified is undertaking illegality, and so is anyone circulating e-learning information that is not approved by KICD,” Kipsang said. He further said that only qualified teachers are allowed to offer learning during the holiday and the content must be approved by the KICD.