Narok Senator Ledama ole Kina has criticised his Siaya counterpart James Orengo for opposing his appointment as the chairperson to the Senate County Public and Accounts Investment Committee. Ole Kina was appointed as PAIC chair on Monday, replacing the outgoing Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang. Hours after his appointment, Orengo wrote to the Senate Speaker expressing his dissatisfaction with the new members. Orengo said the names of the new members were published in a rush when other issues were not resolved. Orengo had said that his side might consider withdrawing its members from the Senate’s new PAIC. “We intend to withdraw our membership from the said committee until an appropriate resolution can be made,” Orengo said. However, in a rejoinder, Ole Kina said he supported ODM party leader Raila Odinga's presisdential campaign against all odds and that Orengo's move is questionable. He said he will not be threatened by Orengo's letter to the Senate, and that he is prepared. "I was nearly killed in the last Resist Movement! Now what exactly does this letter mean? James Orengo are they trying to steal my chair position! No way! I am a wrong number to mess with!" Ole Kina said. He added that the Maasai community are not 'fence sitters' but are Kenyans who also want the opportunity to lead the country. "The Maasai are not fence sitters! We are Kenyans and one day we will lead this country! Double standards! No position is reserved for any person. Let’s respect democracy," He said. Kiambu County Senator Kimani Wamatangi was picked as vice chairperson of PAIC. Ole Kina gained five votes against his Kisii counterpart Sam Ongeri. The committee has nine members. Mithika Linturi (Meru), Millicent Omanga (nominated) and Sam Ongeri(Kisii) were retained in the committee. The new members to the committee are Hargura Godana(Marsabit), Irungu Kangata (Murang’a), Ochillo Ayacko (Migori) and Taita Taveta County senator  Johnes Mwaruma. Following his appointment as deputy chair, Wamatangi said he was honoured to have been elected to the committee and that he will discharge his duties without any fear. In 2018, Kajwang and four members of the committee were summoned the over Ruaraka land scandal and accused of soliciting a Sh100, 000 bribe to manipulate investigations. Kajwang’ and members Mithika Linturi, Kimani Wamatangi and nominated senator Millicent Omanga denied wrongdoing. The Senate PAIC was investigating the circumstances under which Mburu was allegedly paid Sh1.5 billion as part of the deal for the compulsory acquisition of 13.5 acres also claimed by Ruaraka High and Drive- Inn Primary schools.