Police in Lamu are looking for a panga-wielding gang that has been terrorising residents. The gang, believed to consist of young men from Gadeni, is known for the ruthless manner in which they pursue, waylay, and then attack their victims using pangas and knives. Tens of people have been attacked and maimed by the gang which security officers say is trying to emulate the Wakali Kwanza criminal gang in Mombasa. On Wednesday evening, 21-year-old Ahmed Mohamed was attacked by the gang as he left his farm in Bajuri. He is admitted at the Lamu King Fahad Hospital after suffering deep panga cuts on the head, legs and hands. Lamu county police commander Moses Murithi said on Friday two notorious gang members believed to have been behind Ahmed’s attack are being pursued by police after they fled the island. Murithi urged residents to give any information that would lead to the arrest of the gang members. “Our officers are on their trail and we shall surely capture them no matter where they hide. Anybody with helpful information should come forward so that together we can put an end to these gangs,” Murithi said. Ahmed’s family has urged police to get to the bottom of the matter and ascertain who attacked their son and why. His father, Mohamed Shee, said his son is a polite and humble man and wondered why anybody would want him dead. “You can tell from the cuts that they wanted to kill him. These attacks are getting too much plus most of them [gang members] are on drugs,” he said. Residents have called for increased patrols on all roads, streets and villages, especially those located on the outskirts of Lamu town. The worst panga attack in Lamu’s history was that of December 11, 2019, when Mbwajumwali senior chief Mohamed Famau, 45 and his assistant chief Athman Shee, 43, were hacked to death in their office in broad daylight. Witnesses said the assailants wore buibuis and covered their faces with veils. No one has ever been arrested or charged for the murders. Lamu currently has an active ban forbidding residents from walking around in public places with pangas, clubs, knives and other crude weapons. Edited by A.N 