Consumer organisations have urged the government to step up market surveillance to protect the public from fake face masks and sanitiser. They made a joint statement under the umbrella of Consumer Voices of Kenya. The organisations said there is a continuous supply of substandard sanitiser and face masks, exposing Kenyans to the risk of contracting coronavirus. “Many unscrupulous traders are taking advantage of the situation to maim innocent consumers by selling to them low-quality face masks that would not serve any purpose in preventing coronavirus spread,” Consumer Unity and Trust Society Programmes coordinator Daniel Usher said. He urged the Health ministry to provide precautions on use of alcohol-based sanitiser and promote the use of water and soap for hand-washing. “We have witnessed the use of surgical spirit, which is corrosive, as a sanitiser. If such practices are not arrested fast enough, we could create further health challenges.” The association said it is regrettable that police officers harass Kenyans found not wearing face masks in public. “The officers need to device a human way of handling citizens who in one way or another may not be having the face mask. We do not need to lump them up with other possible candidates of Covid-19 infection,” Usher said. The organisations said consumers in rural areas still lack information regarding the Covid-19 pandemic, despite various measures shared by the Ministry of Health. They said all Kenyans ought to be properly sensitised on disposal of face masks and where possible properly shown how to handle used masks without subjecting them to the risk of contamination. They called on the agencies in charge of water and sanitation services to ensure uninterrupted supply of water, particularly in vulnerable areas such as slums. “The water management agencies should halt any disconnections during this period,” Usher said. They asked the government to protect health workers and their families and enhance accountability and transparency in handling resources contributed by well-wishers. They want the Communications Authority and the Health ministry to put in place measures to ensure that only factual information is channelled to consumers. The statement was jointly issued by CUTS, Kenya Consumer Organisation, Consumer Downtown Association, Consumer Information Network and Consumer Grassroot Association. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya