Pressure is mounting on Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko after some MCAs threatened to reintroduce impeachment should he withdraw the transfer of key functions to the state. The MCAs from both sides of the house want Sonko to step back and consult the assembly before moving to court over the contentious Deed of Transfer. Speaking to Star on Friday, Dandora III MCA Charles Thuo said Governor Sonko must consult the assembly. “ Let the functions transferred remain with NMS [Nairobi Metropolitan Services] as it is what he signed at State House. Before the governor reaches out to Uhuru, we are asking him to reach out to the assembly to assist him over the deed," he said. Thuo said the outcome would not be good if Sonko confronted President Uhuru Kenyatta over the matter. He warned him of a tsunami if he continued with the fight against NMS. “We want to see progress and service delivery for Nairobi. Back and forth fighting with NMS will even add more problems as Nairobi is also battling against coronavirus," he said. ODM members are calling upon President Kenyatta to give them the green light to finish Sonko off with the impeachment introduced in the assembly in February. “ We want to ask the President to let our hands free to do our work as legislators if the governor continues with this push and pull over an agreement that he himself appended his signature to,” Nairobi West MCA Maurice Gari said. Baba Dogo MCA Geoffrey Majiwa said Sonko was behind the problems in Nairobi. “If the governor was doing his work in the right way, we couldn’t be in this situation. He needs to tell Nairobi residents what other things he signed without knowing. He might as well have even given away City Hall’s deed and we do not know," he said. Governor Sonko has vowed to push on with plans to terminate the Deed of Transfer of functions to the national government. His lawyer Harrison Kinyanjui said the process of termination of the deed would depend on how the President handles the situation. “The Deed of Transfer had its mechanism on how to terminate the agreement. We have not moved to court but we have initiated the process,” he said. Kinyanjui termed the agreement as an attempted unlawful takeover of the Nairobi City county government by the national government. “The takeover is unconstitutional and using the disguise of the transfer of functions without abiding by the law cannot be termed as legal. People cannot pretend to be helping the county but your intention is exploiting,” he said. Kinyanjui noted that the governor is aware of a few individuals in the national government who want to loot the city through the transferred functions. “Those in the national government should stop pretending to be helping the people of Nairobi. If there was truly a candid reason to help the people of Nairobi, public participation would have been held before the agreement. At the end of the day, it is the lives of the residents that matter not a political witch hunt," he explained. At the same time, some MCAs claim their lives are in danger for supporting the transfer of functions. Nominated MCA June Ndegwa told the Star that there are MCA who are being threatened because of their support to the Nairobi Metropolitan Services. “As we speak, I am at the DCI to record my statement. We have people tracking our every move. Last month, an unknown person came to my house and his message was not clear as he said, Tunajua pahali unaishi sasa [We now know where you live],"  she said. Edited by Henry Makori