A court has dismissed an appeal by the Assets Recovery Agency to reverse a decision that rejected additional documents in a forfeiture case against suspects in the Sh791 million NYS scam. The case is against Charity Gethi, who is the mother of Ben Gethi, one of the key suspects, Jedidah Wangui, John Kago, and Ogola and Mujera Advocates. Appellate judges Wanjiru Karanja, Hannah Okwengu and Daniel Musinga said the agency failed to demonstrate that High Court judge John Onyiego failed to properly exercise his discretion when he dismissed its application. The appeal arose out of a ruling and order by Justice  Onyeigo, who dismissed the agency’s application that sought to review orders issued on July 4, 2018, declining to allow it to file and serve a document "out of time". The document was based on further investigations into funds stolen from the National Youth Service. The agency said the delay in filing the affidavit was occasioned by the complexity of the case and the interwoven nature of the crimes investigated. It said the case was not an ordinary civil case, but rather an application to recover proceeds of crime stolen from the coffers of the NYS, hence, declining the filing of the affidavit would greatly prejudice public interest. But the judge, in rejecting the document, faulted the ARA for failing to file it on time. The agency delayed filing the affidavit for more than a year. And in their ruling, the appellate judges said it was not upon the court to consider the merits of the content of the affidavit but rather the time and circumstances leading to the delay in its filing. They also faulted the agency for failing to demonstrate that judge Onyiego misdirected himself in law or took into account issues he ought not to have considered. “The agency has failed to demonstrate that the judge failed to properly exercise his discretion in dismissing the application that was before him in order to warrant this court's interference. The appeal lacks merit and is dismissed,” they ruled.