ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has dismissed claims that he will team up with Deputy President William Ruto in the DP's quest to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022. Speaking during an interview on Milele FM, he said he cannot step down to become Ruto's running mate. He said the DP will be his competitor because he will also be running for the presidency. “I will not step down for anyone. It will be for Kenyans to decide. If he [Ruto] steps down, that will be up to him,” Mudavadi said. Speculation has been rife that Mudavadi could team up with Ruto following numerous visits by allies of the Deputy President to the ANC leader. Khwisero MP Christopher Aseka said Mudavadi is nursing presidential ambitions and is, therefore, looking for support everywhere. “As a presidential hopeful, you need everybody on board. We [MPs from Western] have also been accused of being divided but we want to tell people we are now united behind our own. His [Mudavadi] approach is to remain a unifying factor,” Aseka said. Aseka said they have plans to talk to leaders from Central, Rift Valley and the Coast regions with the view of bringing them on board. “We are looking for support from all regions. We are fully engaged behind the scenes to consolidate support for Mudavadi.” Mudavadi's heightened activities at his offices in Nairobi has sparked off speculation of possible political realignments. He has been meeting politicians almost daily at the Musalia Mudavadi Centre in Riverside, some of whom are close allies of the Deputy President. Earlier in the week, he met Sirisia MP John Waluke and Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, both allies of the DP. In 2017, Mudavadi campaigned for ODM leader Raila Odinga under the National Super Alliance coalition that brought together many affiliate parties. Mudavadi said affiliate parties considering joining Jubilee should first quit the coalition. Mudavadi said NASA leaders should stop misleading Kenyans that they are planning to enter into a coalition with Jubilee before officially leaving NASA. “A party cannot be in two coalitions at the same time. Do not play games with the minds of Kenyans,” he said. Mudavadi said affiliate parties should make it clear that they are leaving NASA to join the Jubilee-Kanu coalition. “Tell Kenyans you are leaving NASA before you can talk about plans to enter into a coalition with Jubilee and Kanu,” he said. ANC is in a coalition agreement with Raila Odinga’s ODM, Kalonzo Musyoka’s Wiper, Moses Wetang’ula’s Ford-Kenya and Isaac Rutto’s Chama Cha Mashinani under NASA. On May 10, Kanu signed a post-election agreement with Jubilee, becoming the first party to formalise its agreement with the ruling party. The post-election coalition is purely for purposes of addressing the parliamentary strength of the Jubilee. Mudavadi said leaders talking about partnerships with Jubilee should explain to Kenyans “whether it is a coalition, cooperation or cohabitation”. “We must explain which of the three we are referring to when we speak. As ANC, we are in the NASA Coalition.” Kalonzo has indicated that his party is working on a post-election coalition agreement with Jubilee and Kanu. CCM, on the other hand, has hinted at a cooperation deal, while ODM has said it will not enter into a coalition with the ruling party. On the clean-up in Parliament, Mudavadi said every party had the right to make changes to its House leadership. “What is needed is justice when effecting the changes. We should not be measuring who is more loyal to the party than the other.” Edited by R.Wamochie