Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi has expressed his regret of voting in Uhuru Kenyatta as President. His sentiment comes after President Uhuru Kenyatta chaired a Jubilee-Kanu Coalition Parliamentary Group meeting for senators at State House on Monday. The meeting saw his Senators Kipchumba Murkomen and Susan Kihika axed from their powerful positions as Majority Leader and Chief Whip respectively. Through a series of posts on his social media pages, the MP said that it was shameful for the President to engage his juniors in the fight. “How can a whole president fight small people like Susan Kihika and Kipchumba Murkomen? It is shameful for a president to engage in a political tussle with such small people," Sudi said. “I regret voting and campaigning for him big time.” Sudi added that the move by the president to focus on politics of succession amid coronavirus pandemic is shameful. “People are so determined to remain in power instead of providing basic things to people at this time of the pandemic, “he said. He also said that many Kenyans are struggling to put food on the table at this time when the country is facing a pandemic. The changes in the senate saw West Pokot Senator Samuel Poghisio replacing Murkomen. Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika was not spared either as she lost her Majority Whip post, which was handed to Murang’ a senator Irungu Kang’ata. The changes in the senate posts have elicited debate over the relationship between Uhuru and his deputy William Ruto ahead of the 2022 elections. Ruto’s allies have already disputed the changes saying that the exercise was handled without following the law. The Political Parties Dispute Tribunal on Tuesday issued interim orders stopping the Jubilee Party from executing its coalition agreement with Kanu. After an appeal by the Jubilee Party Deputy Secretary-General Caleb Kositany, Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika, and the National Assembly Majority Chief Whip Benjamin Washiali, the tribunal ruled that matter be certified as urgent. "In the interest of justice an interim order be and is hereby issued declaring that any decision or action founded on the coalition agreement purportedly signed by the two parties and deposited on May 4 is null, void and has no effect," the ruling read in part. Murkomen at the Senate on Tuesday challenged Uhuru to now deliver to Kenyans after he was ousted as the Senate Majority Leader. In a stormy Senate session on Tuesday, Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka effected the changes where Murkomen and Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika were formally axed from their roles as Majority Leader and Whip respectively. However, the Speaker's communication did not go down well with Murkomen who claimed that Lusaka's decision to formally oust him as Majority Leader was made under duress. Murkomen took the chance to take a swipe at President Uhuru Kenyatta who chaired the State House Meeting that led to his ouster, accusing him on not being truthful to the House. "I want to tell the president to stop lying to the Senate. You said you will give Senate Oversight Fund. Give them. If Murkomen was the problem, he is now not there. Sign all the bills!" the Elgeyo Marakwet Senator said.