Chama Cha Mashinani party members will meet on Saturday to either endorse or reject the planned post-election pact with Jubilee Party. The party headed by former Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto has issued a notice to members that the meeting will be conducted via Zoom and will also be live on Facebook. Apart from being briefed on what the deal entails, the members will also be taken through various amendment bills pending in Parliament. They include the Referendum Bill, Special Interest Group Bill, Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission Bill and the Political Parties amendment Bill. “CCM will be hosting an online engagement with the party members on Saturday, May 30, from 11am to 1pm. The agenda of the meeting will be to provide an opportunity for CCM members to apprise themselves on the status of various critical legislation,” the notice reads. The party will also use the meeting to take a common stand on the Building Bridges Initiative task force report which is due to be released anytime. On Wednesday, Rutto said his party will not sign a post-election coalition with Jubilee but will instead sign a cooperation agreement. Rutto, who spoke during an interview at Emmo FM, said CCM has agreed to support the government’s development agenda and bills and motions in Parliament and county assemblies and to contribute on how to resuscitate the economy post-Covid-19. When asked if party MPs will support an impeachment motion against the DP if one was to be proposed in the National Assembly, Rutto said, “Anything outside what is contained in the cooperation agreement will be discussed on a need basis.” “The talks between CCM and Jubilee were on how to keep Kenya peaceful, how to address the economy after Covid-19 and moving forward for the next two years. We never discussed who to vote for in 2022.” Rutto added, “We had a cooperation with Jubilee since 2017 but we can now sign the agreement that does not contravene our agreement with NASA. The cooperation is about supporting the government in bills in Parliament and development agenda. What is not contained in the agreement will be discussed.” Edited by R.Wamochie