 Kenya will use a drug approved by the US for treating coronavirus patients but in small portions, the Ministry of Health has said. The drug, remdesivir, was approved by the Food and Drug Authority in the US for emergency use. Data from a study carried out shows that remdesivir has a clear-cut, significant, positive effect in diminishing the time to recovery. Remdesivir was found to have shortened the time to recovery by 31 per cent, an average of about four days. “This is not however to point out that we now have a cure because when you look at the time frame it is only 15 days for those who received normal treatment versus 11 days for those who received the drug,” director of health Patrick Amoth said on Saturday. “So this is not a silver bullet though it has been approved but the other shortcoming of this medication is that it can only be given as an infusion through an injection so there is no oral formulation and is also relatively expensive.” Amoth said since most of the cases being recorded in the country are mild asymptomatic cases, the drug will be administered in small portions. He said the ministry continues to pursue the use of other medications such as antiretroviral medicines that have been tried and use of chloroquine hyrochloroquine. He said even though the drug has shown positive results among patients, it shouldn’t be taken as a cure for Covid-19. The study was conducted on 1,063 patients. “This was a good trial because the case load was good and the primary end point was the recovery in terms of either stoppage of usage of the ventilator oxygen for critically ill patients or the time for discharge,” Amoth said. From the study, those given the drug were able to leave the hospital in 11 days compared to 15 days for the comparison group. The drug also touted to be having the reduction in deaths, although that is not certain from the partial results revealed so far. Kenya on Saturday recorded 24 new cases of coronavirus pushing the tally to 435. Two more people were discharged after recovery while another death was recorded, Health Chief Administrative Secretary Mercy Mwangangi said. The number of deaths now stand at 22 with 152 recoveries.  Edited by P.O 