Kisii Governor James Ongwae has urged residents in flood and landslide-prone areas to move to safer grounds to evade disaster. Ongwae noted that the rains have destroyed homes and crops causing havoc in parts of his county. He said that his administration has donated food, mattresses and blankets to affected residents. Speaking on Sunday as he toured various areas, Ongwae said more than 2,000 people have been displaced by floods, mudslides and water-logging. However, Ongwae said, the county government had stepped in to offer humanitarian assistance. "The ongoing rains have really affected our people and it's our responsibility to give the affected families a relief even as we ponder the next move to have them resettled when the rains subside," he said. The governor added that the displaced households were only receiving temporary assistance to enable them to endure the losses they incurred. Affected areas are Bomachoge Borabu, Bomachoge Chache, South Mugirango, Bobasi, Kitutu Chache South and Kitutu Chache North. Throughout the weekend, Governor Ongwae dispatched a team from the County Disaster Management Department led by chief officer Timothy Kambuni to deliver assorted food items and bedding to the families taking shelter at various schools in Botaranda in Magenche and Mochorwa in Bosoti Sengera ward. At Riaisena and Rionsoti in Nyacheki ward, families affected by mudslides also received assorted relief commodities including bedding, foodstuffs and sanitary items. Other beneficiaries included displaced families in parts of Chitago, Bogetenga and Getenga areas of South Mugirango. While empathising with the affected families, Ongwae asked them to remain patient and wait for the rains to subside before resettling. He, however, noted that no fatalities or injuries have been reported in the incidents but residents have lost property, livestock and crops worth millions of shillings. Ongwae appealed to well-wishers to chip in and support the affected households. The county government, he said, has invited experts from the Mines and Geology Department to visit some of the sites like Nyabworoba in Kitutu Chache North to establish whether the places are habitable and forge a lasting solution for the residents. Edited by R.Wamochie