Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen has said that his removal from the Senate Majority leadership position has catapulted his political career. The senator has asked his supporters to take heart after what happened and promised them for brighter days ahead. Murkomen spoke on Tuesday during the Senate proceedings after Speaker Kenneth Lusaka communicated to the House that he had formally received the changes made by the Jubilee party. “I have just started my political life. I have only been seven years in politics Mr Speaker. I believe that this is just but the morning of a political career,” he said. “There will be a brighter future…I will come back and come back big Mr Speaker.” The senator also said that he has was not much worried about losing the Majority Leader post but his worry was over his staff whom he said could be sacked anytime. “I am not worried about not being the majority leader. What we were defending on this side is there is the rule of law. What I have been concerned about are my staff who by a stroke of political conmanship have been left jobless,” he said. The Speaker communicated that Murkomen has been officially replaced by West Pokot Senator Samuel Poghisio and Nakuru Susan Kihika replaced by Murang'a Senator Irungu Kang’ata as Majority Whip. According to Murkomen, the senators who met at State House on Monday during the Jubilee Coalition Parliamentary Group meeting were less than the quorum needed to make such changes. The senator also claimed that Lusaka's decision to formally oust him as Majority Leader was made under duress. "Mr Speaker, this is not your decision. You made this decision under duress and undue influence and I am sorry you had to do it. Thank you, Mr Speaker," an emotional Murkomen said. The Senator said the decision was not reasoned despite the Speaker saying he would give a reasoned ruling later. "Mr Speaker, will all those remarks, I just want to say this, I know you will say the conduct of the speaker is being put in doubt, you're my friend, I have known you long, you've been a DC in my place, I knew you when you were Governor, I defended you here when Orengo and Wetangula wanted to bring Senate documents against you," he added. Murkomen took the chance to take a swipe at President Uhuru Kenyatta who chaired the State House Meeting that led to his ouster, accusing him on not being truthful to the House. "I want to tell the president to stop lying to the Senate. You said you will give Senate Oversight Fund. Give them. If Murkomen was the problem, he is now not there. Sign all the bills!" the Elgeyo Marakwet Senator said.