ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to call DCI and DPP to order. There has been sibling rivalry between the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions. The DCI headed by George Kinoti accused DPP Noordin Haji's office of interference and inordinate delays in their criminal probes. In an internal communication to his team, Director of Investigations at the Bureau John Kariuki said they will not send any progress report to Haji’s office from now on. This communication means that the DCI has effectively locked out the DPP from their investigations in what signals the end of the early camaraderie between Haji and Kinoti. "In the interest of sustained stability in criminal justice, the appointing authority needs to probe into the recurrent conflict between the two leaders," Mudavadi said. "The appointing authority needs to call them to order once and for all. He also needs to probe the source of these differences and ensure that they are definitely put to rest." Mudavadi said the two entities together with the EACC have the Multi Agency Team as a joint clearing house that should be used to nip in the bud any potential misunderstandings. "It appears that this joint forum is not being used. That is why friction between the DCI and the DPP keeps spilling into public space," he said. In a statement on Sunday, Mudavadi said beyond the differences between the two public officers, their differences could morph into caustic rivalry between them. "If this happens, it will mark the end of criminal justice in the country. Regardless of who heads which entity, we will never see any useful conclusion to any matter in their mutual hands.," he said. "The spin off is that criminals will run riot with their activities. The war against corruption and other forms of crime will be permanently lost." Mudavadi said the war against crime and against corruption are dangerously under threat. " As a country we need to get to the bottom of what ails relations between the two institutions, before they become the graveyard of criminal justice in the country," he said. JUDICIARY The ANC leader further noted that succession anxiety in Judiciary was also a cause for concern for the country. "If succession in the Judiciary is not well managed, internal strife could compromise adjudication of justice in the law courts. A bad precedent has already been set in the office of the auditor general," he said. Mudavadi said the wrangling between the DPP and the DCI together with succession issues in the Auditor General’s office is a frightening pictures in the fight against corruption in Government. "Whether these flaws are deliberate or not, they need to be arrested without further delay," he said. "The succession process in the Judiciary calls for urgent attention, just as the delayed appointment of a new Auditor General – and the sorting out of the tiff between the DCI and the DPP."