Two women living in an IDP camp in Tana Delta have had to deliver their babies in makeshift structures infested by mosquitos and ants. The women gave birth at a camp in Marafa with the help of a midwife. One of the mothers had difficulties during childbirth and lost a lot of blood. Shora Godhana, a midwife, said she has assisted six women to deliver since the pandemic began and there are many others who are expectant. “Last night there is a woman who delivered here at the camp because there is no health facility and no one else to help them give birth,” she said. Godhana said the woman who had difficulties giving birth bled profusely and could not hold her child after delivery. She could not take her to the nearest health facility in Oda or Ngao which are over 50 kilometres away and the road is impassible. The two women are part of more than 48,000 flood victims from Tana River county who are living in deplorable conditions in IDP camps. The camps are located in areas which have poor sanitation, surrounded by thorny bushes and the health facilities are no longer operating. In some of the areas worst hit by the disaster in Kipini West, the majority of health facilities were closed. Residents have been forced to adopt traditional ways of treatment as roads were completely cut off. Godhana said all flood victims are suffering and children have diarrhoea while others have no proper place to sleep. In the temporary homes, venomous snakes invade at night and at times bite occupants. During a tour of the IDP camps on Sunday, journalists found a 10-year-old girl who had been bitten by a snake. Her parents were treating her snakebite with herbs. The girl from Manono had crossed the crocodile-infested river walking behind her parents with household materials on their way to their IDP camp when the snake bit her on the leg and slithered away unseen. Her parents only heard her crying and learnt that their child had been attacked. They tied her leg at the knees with a rope and carried her home where they used a medicinal stone to remove the snake poison. The girl's mother Hamida Tumbo said she did not go to the hospital because of the floods and the nearest hospital is far. “There are so many snakes living around us and any time one can be bitten. We have so many problems including lack of food and housing,” she said. Tumbo said their prayer is for the girl to heal. Kipini West MCA Musa Wario who joined journalists on the tour of the camps said his ward has over 4,000 people displaced by floods. Wario said it was sad that residents had to be subjected to such suffering yet the national and county governments have resources to support the victims. He said the victims require drugs, relief food, clean water and be relocated to higher grounds to prevent the perennial floods. The MCA said a permanent solution to support the flood victims should be sought. Wario appealed to the government to use helicopters to supply relief food to the areas which were cut off. “The police, KDF have big choppers which can supply relief to the victims why can't they be used for the IDPs who are suffering,” he said. The county lawmaker also urged the Tana River government to identify clusters for all the victims in his ward to enable them to have permanent homes. Waithera Abashora, a resident of Handaraku, said cases of diarrhoea among children had been reported. There is fear if action is not taken quickly there could be an outbreak of cholera, Abashora said. She said women are most affected as they lost all their crops in the farms and homes. “There are mosquitoes at night and ants during the day together with snakes which are a threat for us, right now we are hungry and urgently need relief food,” she said. (edited by o. owino)