Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka on Tuesday approved changes to the Jubilee leadership in the House amid fierce protests from Deputy President William Ruto’s allies. Lusaka announced the removal of Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and Nakuru's Susan Kihika as Majority Leader and Majority Whip, respectively. They were replaced by Samuel Poghisio (West Pokot) and Irungu Kang'ata (Murang’a) following a Senate Parliamentary Group meeting with President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday. The Speaker said the changes met House rules and procedures. “I am satisfied that the changes were made in accordance with the Senate Standing Orders 19(1), (2), (3), (40), (5) and (7) meets the threshold required under Standing Order 19(5) there having been a majority of the vote,” Lusaka said. Lusaka said he received the minutes of Monday’s Jubilee Coalition meeting held at State House. He announced the changes after chairing a stormy Senate Business Committee attended by Murkomen and Kihika. The Speaker also received a signed list of senators who attended the meeting, a post-election agreement between Jubilee and Kanu and the Registrar of Political Parties certificate ratifying the coalition. “Accordingly, I wish to communicate to the House that the majority has effected changes which shall now take effect. I will make a reasoned ruling in due course,” the Speaker said. DP Ruto allies jumped up to protest the announcement. Senators Mohamed Mahamud (Mandera), Aaron Cheruiyot (Kericho) and Murkomen questioned the legality of the process. Mahamud sought to know whether the Speaker had received an order issued by the Political Parties Dispute Tribunal staying the changes. “Just saw something about the Political Parties’ Tribunal that whatever was agreed was null and void is left to be determined at a later date. I don’t know whether it has come to your attention?” he asked. The Speaker said he will address the concerns in his comprehensive ruling. The tribunal issued the order on Tuesday morning following an application by Jubilee deputy secretary general Caleb Kositany (Soy) and National Assembly Majority Chief Whip Benjamin Washiali. “In the interest of justice an interim order be and is hereby issued declaring that any decision or action founded on the coalition agreement purportedly signed by the two parties and deposited on May 4 is null, void and has no effect,” the ruling read in part. Cheruiyot sought to know the authenticity of the list of senators who endorsed the changes and whether the Speaker was in receipt of the Tribunal’s order. The Kericho senator also asked if it was procedural for the Speaker to receive communication on changes to leadership from the Deputy Majority Whip. Lusaka had received the party’s decision to change leadership from Kang'ata who was Kihika’s deputy. “I have information in my possession, and I would like to know, it is proper that before the speaker makes such a decision, that this house is furnished with the alleged minutes of the meeting, who were present, who signed? Because we have supplied your office this morning with a list of 20 senators from the Jubilee party that have signed and said they were not party to that meeting,” he said. “It is sad that at such a time that the country is dealing with a pandemic, some people met somewhere, made forgeries, and we are about to sanction it as a House,” he added, triggering a reaction from nominated ODM Senator Judith Pareno. Pareno asked whether it was in order for the senator to question the Speaker’s ruling. Murkomen took issue with the President, accusing him of conmanship and orchestrating political machinations and schemes to oust him. “If the greatest achievement of President Uhuru Kenyatta is to demonstrate to the people of Kenya that I have removed my majority leader, the President is already a big man,” he said. “I want to say, Mr President, now deliver for the people of Kenya. Murkomen is now out of the way. Allow all the bills that have been signed unconstitutionally to come to the Senate. Stop lying to the Senate, you said you will provide oversight funds, please provide,” he added, amid calls by the Speaker ruling him out of order. The speaker warned him against propagating improper motives on the President without a substantive motion. The former Majority leader said Lusaka was under duress and undue influence to endorse illegality. Murkomen said the list of members who signed his removal was forged as part of the all-out plot to remove him from the lucrative position. Minority leader James Orengo stood on a point of order to demand the withdrawal of his utterances. “I heard Senator Murkomen saying that the President should stop lying to the nation, and he should now deliver on the things he itemised. Is it in order for him to run away from his statement and truth and persuade us otherwise?” he asked. (edited by o. owino)