Meru health executive Misheck Mutuma has cautioned residents against accommodating relatives from counties listed as coronavirus hotspots. The government has restricted movement in and out of Nairobi, Mombasa, Kilifi, Kwale and Mandera counties to curb the spread of coronavirus. Mutuma told the Star that they had crucial information that people from Nairobi, Mombasa and Mandera, among other counties with movement restrictions, are buying their way into Meru. "They cheat police officers at the roadblocks under the guise they are from within and came from a county without cessation of movement like Isiolo. They risk their relatives, contact persons and family to the contagious pandemic,” he said. Mutuma appealed to Nyumba Kumi officials to monitor individuals, especially strangers, visiting their areas. “They are our family members, we love them but I ask Nyumba Kumi to report to health officers or police any stranger coming to the villages at this time, whether they belong there or not," he said. "They should be in a quarantine facility for 14 days, not endangering the lives of their relatives and family members at home." The executive said he was concerned that some people carry masks in their bags or hang them around their necks, only to wear them when they spot police officers. Mutuma said health should be a personal responsibility and people are not cows, hence should not be reminded repeatedly to wear masks, wash hands, keep social distance, be self-disciplined and take their health seriously. “Meru people should know the coronavirus is a pandemic that has destroyed Italy, China, America, and it seems they are unable to contain it. We don’t have resources and equipment in Kenya. If you stay at home the coronavirus will never infect you,” he said. Mutuma added that the county is committed to the war on the virus. He termed it retrogressive for politicians to incite residents against other leaders to gain political mileage. "We ended the first phase of distributing 1,000 tanks to vulnerable and high-risk places. We have also completed the first phase of distributing 80,000 masks to our people and now continuing with fumigation of towns and markets to aid the fight against the disease," the executive said.  (Edited by F'Orieny)