The Nairobi Metropolitan Service has launched a Covid-19 mass testing programme across all the 17 subcounties in the capital. This comes as Nairobi continues to lead with the highest number of confirmed coronavirus cases. Out of 1,029 nationwide coronavirus confirmed cases, Nairobi leads with 496, followed by Mombasa with 361 as at Wednesday. Nairobi's Eastleigh estate is under a partial lockdown that has been extended until June 6 in a bid to prevent cases from rising. In a notice issued by NMS Director for Health Services Dr Josephine Kibaru on Wednesday, the mass testing will target communities, mostly at the ward level. The exercise will be supervised by doctors to ensure the process is conducted in an organised manner. The programme kicked off on Wednesday in Kamkunji subcounty with the targeted community being residents if Eastleigh. The testing centres were stationed at Zawadi Primary School, St Teresa’s Boys Secondary and New Eastleigh Primary School. On Thursday, the testing supervised by Dr Vicky Chela will be in Dagoretti sub-county, targeting Uthiru. Residents will have to go to Kawangware Day Nursery School Uthiru, Congo stage and Molo line stage near Riruta for testing. Also on Thursday, residents from Embakasi East will have mass testing with the target community being from Mukuru kwa Njenga, Pipeline and Quarry. The testing centres will be at Reuben Centre Primary School and Kwa Njenga Primary school and the exercise will be overseen by Dr Owino. The process will continue in Embakasi East on Friday with the community target being Utawala residents. On Saturday, Covid-19 mass testing will be in Embakasi Central and West with target community being residents from Kayole and Umoja respectively. Dr Gichana will be expected to supervise both exercises. On Sunday, Dr Gichuhi will supervise mass testing in Starehe subcounty which will take place at Mukuru Kayaba and Mathare. Target communities are the Mukuru, Mathare and Huruma. Next week on Monday, residents from Starehe subcounty will have an opportunity to participate in the Covid-19 mass testing with Dr Asma overseeing the exercise. The centres will be at Kangemi, Kihumbuini Grounds and Highridge primary, with people targeted from Kangemi, Sodom, Bottom line, Deep sea City Park and City Park market. On May 26, the exercise will be in Langata and Kibera subcounties, with the testing centres situated at Undugu grounds and Kamkunji grounds respectively. The exercise targeting residents from Sarang’ombe and environs, Wilson, Garage and Highrise and will be supervised by Dr Mohamed. The exercise on May 27 will head to Kasarani subcounty with the testing centres set up at Murema Primary School. The target residents from Santon and Hunters have been appealed to show up for the exercise that will be supervised by Dr Kadivane and Dr Gratia. On the same date, Roysambu subcounty will have the same exercise at Githurai Primary School, with residents from both Githurai 44 & 45 targeted for the exercise. Dr Kari will be in charge of the exercise. On May 28, Covid-19 mass testing will be at Ruaka, Kwa DC targetting residents from Mathare 1, 2 and 3, and Naivas area. Also, the exercise will go back to Langata, Kwa Chief area, with Dr Mohamed supervising both exercises. On May 29, residents from Huruma, Kariobangi North and Korogocho will be able to test for Coronavirus as the exercise goes to Mathare subcounty, under the supervision of Dr Gichuki. On the same day at Cheleta Primary in Starehe subcounty, Dr Asma will supervise the mass testing targeting residents from Githogoro and Mji wa Huruma. Mass testing will be at Makadara subcounty on May 30, at Heshima Road Primary, targeting residents from Bahati, Civil Servants, Makongeni, Jana Villa, and Jogoo Rd. Dr Nelly Pato will be in charge of the exercise. Still, on the same day, the exercise will go to Kamkunji subcounty with the centre stationed at Muthurwa Primary School. Dr Etole will supervise the exercise targeting residents from Shauri Moyo, Majengo, Jua Kali, Burma, Gikomba and Muthurwa. May 31 being the last day of the programme, the Covid-19 mass testing will be in Kamukunji subcounty at Maina Wanjigi Secondary School, under the supervision of Dr Etole.