The Sh170 million banana processing plant in Kisii is complete and ready for opening. The plant was jointly funded by the European Union (Sh110 million) and the county (Sh60 million). Agriculture executive Ezman Onsarigo said they are mulling operationalising the factory in the coming few weeks.  “We are optimistic that Covid-19 will ease off soon so that we can flag it off,” he said. The plant, once operational, will finally weed out the middlemen said to be exploiting farmers. It is located at the Agricultural Training Centre, where the county is also setting up an avocado factory. Currently, brokers buy a large bunch of bananas for between Sh250 and Sh300. Such prices, said Onsarigo, were exploitative, giving farmers a raw deal. He said the factory will offer competitive and fair prices to cushion them from losses. Already, collection centres are being set up across the wards in the county where the factory will pick the supplies, ready for processing. Onsarigo urged farmers to go for quality seedlings so as to capitalise on the factory to reap good returns. “We still have a large number of farmers who are stuck with old varieties. These are the people we urge to buy the new and highly productive varieties in the market, to spur output,” said Onsarigo. Bananas are ranked fourth after rice, wheat and maize as the world’s most valuable crop consumed for their high nutritive value. Kenya is one among the world’s leading countries in terms of banana production, with an estimated annual production of 1.1 million metric tonnes. The Kisii  factory will churn out crisps, banana powder, hair pieces, and wine among other products. The plant project encompasses capacity building for farmers and agriculture extension officers. At least 11, 000 farmers in the county have been reached out to provide the initial supply stock when the plant begins operations. The county has already facilitated the registration of a banana farmers’ cooperative society, which will facilitate payment for the farmers. The agriculture executive said construction works for the avocado plant are also at their advanced stages. “The structure has been finalised and we are in  the process of procuring machines. There have been a few hitches caused by Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. The factory will only be operational once machinery is installed and tested, the executive said.