A man who was convicted for defiling his ex-lover’s twins on their way to church will serve 25 years instead of a life sentence. The High Court held Jeremiah Muchoki's conviction by the magistrate's court but slashed the sentence because of inconsistencies in the witness statements. Court documents say Muchoki defiled the 10-year-old twins between January and February 3 last year at Marimba sublocation, Imenti South, Meru. He was also charged with committing an indecent act with the two minors contrary to the Sexual Offences Act. Muchoki denied all charges. In their testimonies, the twins said that Muchoki, their neighbour, called them to his house on several Sundays as they set out for church. They said he defiled them in turns, having one outside the house as he committed the offence with the other. He would then buy the children sweets before telling them to go to church. The siblings were in school when a teacher noticed that they were uncomfortable and questioned them. They told the teacher that they had been sexually assaulted. The accused was arrested and charged in a Meru court. In his defence, Muchoki said the twins' mother was using this case to frame him. “That since August 2018 the complainants’ mother was his lover. In December she came home drunk and insulted him and that is when they parted ways,” court papers read. He added that on January 18 last year, the twins’ mother threatened him and he reported the matter that evening to the area manager who advised him to relocate. The Meru magistrate’s court found Muchoki guilty and sentenced him to life. He appealed at the High Court on grounds the magistrate had failed to factor in contradictions in the testimonies. Justice Francis Gikonyo upheld the conviction. “…the appellant, by his unlawful acts, snatched their innocence and childhood. In the circumstances, I impose a sentence of 25 years’ imprisonment for each count with effect from when the appellant was first sentenced. The sentence will run concurrently,” Gikonyo said. (edited by o. owino)