Matatu owners in Mombasa have defended themselves against accusations of greed over high fares. Commuters have called out the owners and operators, saying they are fleecing them by failing to lower their fares after a drop in fuel prices. However, the Matatu Owners Association on Friday said difficult economic conditions make it hard to lower fares. “People have to understand that we are operating businesses and businesses are always affected by many market factors,” MOA Coast coordinator Salim Mbarak said. Commuters say matatu fares have remained the same despite a significant drop in fuel prices. “They cannot reduce the fares even if fuel is free. They do not have reduce gear. Once the fares go up they will remain up,” said Salim Nassor, a Bamburi resident. Best Njue, a Likoni resident, said matatu operators are always quick to hike fares whenever there is a slight increase in fuel prices. “Today, even if the fuel prices increase by a shilling, the next morning fares will have been revised upwards,” Njue said. However, Mbarak said the anti-coronavirus measures by the government restrict the number of passengers in a 14-seater matatu to eight. This, Mbarak said, means they have reduced earnings. “Had the fuel prices dropped when we can carry 14 passengers, the fares would have definitely dropped. But now, even you can see how our hands are tied,” he said. He said owners receive a paltry Sh900 to Sh2,000 a day depending on the routes, down from between Sh3,500 and Sh5,000. Mbarak said the county government had not waived or reduced parking fees, which is Sh2,000 a month. He said in Kenya, more than 70 per cent of the people live from hand to mouth, meaning they have to get to work every day to get something to eat. “That is why matatu drivers and conductors beg us to allow them to operate so they can at least get something for their families to eat. Otherwise, all our vehicles would have been taken off the roads,” Mbarak said. He said Mombasa has around 3,500 matatus but only about 700 are currently operational. Others, he said, have been taken off the road because of the coronavirus pandemic which has rendered the business non-profitable. Edited by Henry Makori