Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi has told county workers to focus on serving residents to ensure the fruits of devolution reach those at the grassroots. The governor was addressing new County Executive Committee members and chief officers at the ICT Hall on Wednesday during their swearing-in. He said the surest way of earning the trust of residents was attending to residents’ needs without favour. Abdi said he was keen to deliver the promises he made to the electorate two years ago, warning that he will not hesitate to "crack the whip if need be on people out to sabotage his administration in whatever manner”. Among those sworn in were Ibrahim Abdi Mohamed (Finance CEC), Abdihakim Billow who was moved from Finance to Water and Ebla Bashir who was transferred from Water to Administration. Others were Abdirahman Osman who was transferred from chief officer Special Programmes to Livestock and Bishar Eymoy who took oath as chief officer for Special Programmes. The governor told employees to give value for the money they earn in salaries and allowances. Anyone who fails to perform will be dismissed, he said. “Each one of you, be it a CEC, a chief officer, director or even a cleaner has his job cut out. You know what is required of you at all time. You should remain professional and adhere to set standards,” Abdi said. "We must be a civilised society where you do what you know is expected of you without necessarily having somebody monitor or push you. When you fail to deliver on the ground, you are failing me." Mid-last year, county employees signed performance contracts in a move meant to improve services. Abdi said those who failed to comply would be shown the door. And those who met set targets would be rewarded. The governor urged residents to hold the public servants accountable and demand services, saying that it was their right to be served. “The individuals occupying the offices are your employees. They are there to serve you and so it is your right to demand services from them. Gone are those days when civil servants used to operate from offices. They should come on the ground,” the governor said.  Edited by R.Wamochie