ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has urged the government to formulate a national policy that will guide the country post-Covid-19. He suggested long-term measures that will restore the economy. “We need to work on long-term arrangements post the pandemic. We need projects that will stimulate growth faster,” he said. The former deputy prime minister said the government must be prepared to deal with the national debt, face its creditors to renegotiate terms or get some debt written off. He described the huge national debt as a critical issue that has to be addressed by an independent agency. In a statement, Mudavadi proposed that a holistic approach be adopted to ensure workers are cushioned by “incentives that will be actualised through policies that will give a definite direction”. "It is an abnormal time for all workers. We do not know how long the coronavirus will be with us. We need to look at how incentives can become policy to help hoteliers." He said the government should collaborate with the private sector to ensure a policy framework is put in place by looking at the kind of incentives that should be developed to allow employers to come back on board within the shortest time possible. Mudavadi advised workers to tighten their belts and look for a raft of other measures as it is not known how long the virus will continue to cause havoc. He told the government to prioritise projects and not put pressure on the Kenya Revenue Authority to collect taxes as the agency has to collect money to settle debts as well. “We, however, must give to Caesar what belongs to Caesar,” he pointed out. "Let KRA collect its dues. The government should, however, rationalise its expenditure and have a coordinated programme that will ease the burden on KRA to meet certain targets. The appetite for expenditure should be tamed." Mudavadi asked political leaders to lead by example and stop politicking and invoking the name of the President unnecessarily. “There is a big problem in the economy at this time. The Covid-19 pandemic has accelerated the challenges we have. It should be a matter of concern for all Kenyans,” he said. He noted that governments the world over are facing the same economic crises. “In Kenya, we will need to be innovative and at the same time live within our means to get out of the economic situation we are in."