ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna has told off Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen over claims that the speaker made the replacement announcement without following the law. In a stormy Senate session on Tuesday, Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka effected the changes where Murkomen and Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika were formally axed from their roles as Majority Leader and Whip respectively. However, the Speaker's communication did not go down well with Murkomen who claimed that Lusaka's decision to formally oust him as Majority Leader did not follow the law. "Very sad that Speaker Lusaka had to make such a decision. No signatures. No list of Senators who attended the purported PG," Murkomen tweeted after leaving the Senate. "Speaker served with order invalidating Jubilee-Kanu coalition yet he makes no reference. I don’t mind being replaced but please follow the Law." He continued: "If I made it difficult for the Executive in the Senate, then I have no apology to make. It’s the primary role of Parliament to oversight the executive and to promote the constitutional principle of checks and balances." But in a quick rejoinder, Sifuna asked Murkomen to get in line behind controversial lawyer Miguna Miguna. "Get in line behind Miguna Miguna. He has 15 Court Orders from the High Court. You have one from a Tribunal. You fed the monster of impunity gleefully," Sifuna said. "You forgot once the crocodile is done eating your neighbours' children it will eat yours." Earlier, the Senator said the decision was not reasoned despite the Speaker said he would give a reasoned ruling later. "Mr Speaker, will all those remarks, I just want to say this, I know you will say the conduct of the speaker is being put in doubt, you're my friend, I have known you long, you've been a DC in my place, I knew you when you were Governor, I defended you here when Orengo and Wetangula wanted to bring Senate documents against you," he added. Murkomen took the chance to take a swipe at President Uhuru Kenyatta who chaired the State House Meeting that led to his ouster, accusing him on not being truthful to the House.