Jubilee now wants the position of CPAIC chair to be open for contestation by all parties, not just the minority. This was after ODM party on Thursday initiated the process of withdrawing Narok Senator Ledama ole Kina as a member of two key Senate committees. Senate Minority Leader James Orengo, in a letter dated May 6 to Speaker Kenneth Lusaka, gave notice that the Opposition party will be removing Ole Kina from the County Public Accounts and Investments (CPAIC) and the House Business Committee. If changes are effected, it will technically remove Ole Kina as the chairman of CPAIC. But in a statement on Thursday, majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen said the leadership of the County Public Accounts Committee should be left to the determination of the Senators and the Committee members who have been appointed based on their party strengths in the Senate. Murkomen said he will be proposing changes to the Standing Order 220 to ensure that any Senator can have a chance to serve as a chair of the committee notwithstanding the political side they belong. "..reserving the position for specific political party presupposes that there is a correlation between parliamentary party strength in the Senate and the formation and running of the county governments," he said. “We opine that every Senator has equal responsibility to oversight their respective counties notwithstanding the Political Party the Governor represents. If electing a Governor and a Senator in one county from opposite political parties improves oversight, then only Narok, Tana River and Trans Nzoia currently enjoy this rare fete." In the letter sent to senate speaker Ken Lusaka, Murkomen pleaded  with the speaker to allow the members of CPAIC resolve the Ole Kina standoff. “It is our considered opinion that the leadership of the County Public Accounts Committee should be left to the determination of the Senators and the Committee members who have been appointed based on their party strengths in the Senate,” the Elgeyo Marakwet senator said. The argument between Ledama and ODM Minority Leader in the Senate James Orengo started on Tuesday following the new members to the County Public and Accounts Investment Committee being announced. Ole Kina emerged the winner from the votes cast defeating his Kisii counterpart Sam Ongeri. Following his win, Orengo disputed the outcome, saying the names of the new members were published in a rush when other issues were not resolved.