The SPARK 5 brings unmatched quality in image and video creation powered by its 13 megapixel AI Quad camera on the back and an 8 megapixel front camera. Each of the four rear AI cameras are equipped with specific capabilities - depth, primary camera, macro lens, and AI lens – delivering an extraordinary visual experience to users and showcasing TECNO Mobile’s innovative use of artificial intelligence technologies. Smartphones have become a way of life for the young and inspiration to youth in Kenya today. This tech-savvy population, as well as high smartphone penetration, has made it easy for social media platforms to grow the number of users in the region. From Twitter and Instagram, to Facebook, TikTok and VSKIT the region’s youth continue to seek out new technologies and best-in-class cameras to create engaging content to share with millions around the world. In 2019, more than 1 billion videos were viewed on TikTok everyday. With little time to edit, and speed being an important factor, young consumers now demand AI technologies to be a key part of their content creation process. With the game changing Spark 5 smartphone, the company has integrated world-class AI capabilities to transform the camera experience for users, giving them a high functioning device designed to capture moments with a superior five camera system that produces ultra-high-quality photos and videos. Equipped by a 13 megapixel rear AI Quad camera and an 8 megapixel front camera, SPARK 5 brings unmatched quality in image and video creation. The cameras at the back consist of a primary camera, a camera that captures depth of field, AI lens for edge detection in portraits, face recognition, and color profile enhancements as well as a macro lens for photographing small subjects at very close distances. All together, they give users the ability to capture exceptional quality photos and videos. SPARK 5’s AI Quad camera has AI Camera 3.0 upgraded algorithm and AI Scene Detection. It also features 6 flashlights with 4 situated around the back camera and a dual front flash. Users can also enjoy close-up photography with a 4 cm macro photography mode that enables them to capture small and minute details. Additionally, the device includes AI HDR technology to increase dynamic range beyond what is captured by the camera's sensors, allowing users to take photos with a higher dynamic range, less noise and clearer details. SPARK 5 is now available in the market and is set to revolutionize the way users in the region post video and photo content on their social channels. With the introduction of this trendsetting smartphone, TECNO Mobile aims to spark the creativity of their customers in the region and worldwide. The company has made the device accessible for every member of the society with an affordable price tag of KES 13999.