Thirdway Alliance party leader Ekuru Aukot has urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to fix the relationship with his deputy William Ruto. Aukot said on Thursday in an open letter to the President that all Kenyans of all walks of life should be included in the ongoing debate regarding the formation of a government of unity. “I wish to honestly advise you that in the same good spirit that you reached out to Raila Odinga for the handshake, you need to get your deputy on a round table and square out your differences away from the public eye,” Aukot said. He added that “It is not clear how BBI will unite Kenyans if it cannot unite you, your deputy and Raila Odinga.” The party leader also raised the alarm over the recent demolitions in Nairobi and the tribal clashes witnessed in Narok county. He said that it is ironic for the government to promise that the Building Bridges Initiative will guarantee shared prosperity among all Kenyans while the same government has demolished thousands of houses in Kariobangi and Ruai leaving many Kenyans homeless. According to Aukot, the President should deploy security and intelligence apparatus to quell the clashes in Narok and stop loss of lives and property. “It is therefore not clear how these Kenyans will have to wait for the shared prosperity without a roof over their heads…It is unfortunate that what is happening in Narok is going on as the BBI process purports to pursue 'Security for all'.” Six people have been killed and several households torched after fresh clashes erupted in Narok county at the weekend. Narok County Commissioner Samuel Kimiti said a contingent of security officers had already been sent to quell the violence. Aukot has also asked the president to reduce the public wage bill and other recurrent expenditures to save funds which will be used to fight the Covid-19. His remarks come at a time when the relationship between Uhuru and Ruto continues to worsen following the latest changes seen in the Senate. The changes in the senate have seen Ruto's close allies losing their key Senate's positions. Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki was voted out from the Deputy Speaker seat. Earlier, Kipchumba Murkomen and Susan Kihika lost their Majority Leader and Majority Whip seats.