Thunder forward Kevin Chogo hopes to return to action in September a much better player following a nasty injury he suffered last year. Talking for the first time since suffering a serious ACL injury in the play-off finals game against eventual league winners Ulinzi Warriors, Chogo assured that he is on the right track to recovery and can’t wait to be back. He said he started his way to full recovery after removing the cast and the walking boots. “ I am now continuing with the physiotherapy under the guidance of my doctor,” he said. “I am working on my movements and it looks fine. I can do all the basic things like shooting and layups but I have to work on my body balance going forward,” he disclosed. He added: “I can still do most of the basic things naturally. The way I am training, I am sure I will be a much better player when I finally resume action. In September, I will be fully recovered.” Chogo said he will work on his shots more because he wants to change his position from the post, where a lot of physical play is involved and move to a three-man, where he will operate from outside the ‘D’. “I moved out of this position last year because we had Faheem (Juma) and Wafula (Ancette), who are both pure shooters. They are so good at operating from there. But now this is where I want to play upon my recovery,” he added. Chogo was stretchered off the pitch during a tight Game 3 match that saw Warriors pull away after he was rushed to the hospital. The soldiers won 99-51 to claim their seventh national title. The injury came at a particularly bad time for Chogo who was taunted as a national team material. Two of his team-mates Griffin Ligare and Faheem Juma made the squad that won the FIBA Africa Zone Five show in January. Coach Collins Gaya said the fact that Chogo, who is his key player, is already out of clutches and undergoing light training on his own, was welcome news to their prospects this year. “This is a message of hope that makes me happy. I was able to see him over the weekend and he is making good progress. He should be fully ready for action by September,” said Gaya. He added: “Chogo has been working well all by himself and on few occasions under the guidance of national team captain and team-mate Ligare.” The tactician, who is also Morans’ assistant coach, said the fact that the league is delayed due to coronavirus is also a blessing in disguise as this will give him time to peak before returning to action. “Kenya Basketball Association informed us that the league will start 45 days after the government declares normalcy. I believe he can play some few matches before the postseason if indeed the action will start,” he said. Gaya regretted that the team has already lost two players this season thus—defensive ace Shem Otieno and Collins Wekesa.