It was almost two hours past the curfew time and her husband had not returned from work yet. A disturbed Mary Ndome kept calling Boniface Ndome’s cell phone but it went unanswered before it was eventually switched off. It was impossible for her to fall asleep that night. It was Saturday, May 9, and she tossed in bed waiting for a knock on the door from the father of her two children. The following morning, there was a knock on her door but the man who stood outside was not Boniface. Mary knew he bore bad news. “He told her that Boniface had been involved in an accident and had not survived. Mary immediately called asking me to talk to the news bearer,” said Wangui Ndome, Boniface’s aunt. Boniface’s co-worker, who brought the news, told the family that he had left his workplace and in a rush to beat the curfew, opted to board a boda boda. At around Quarry area in Donholm estate, a Mercedes Benz hit the motorcycle from behind and both fell, off Outering Road. Then in a move hard to explain, the driver of the vehicle ran over both crushing Boniface’s head and George Githinji, the boda boda operator. Witnesses found a wallet and the colleague's phone number in his pockets and called to inform him of the accident. “I went to City Mortuary to identify Boniface’s body and I could not tell it was him. His face was crushed beyond recognition. We only identified the clothes he was wearing,” Wangui said. The driver drove a few kilometres from the accident before hitting an electric pole. “Traffic officers at the scene after inspecting the car concluded that the driver had been in another accident due to the extent of damage on his car. His front bumper fell off when he hit the motorcycle,” Wainaina Kiganya, a relative, told the Star. “It was then that a man who had witnessed the previous accident recognised the car and informed the officer that the driver had fatally hit two people on a motorcycle a few kilometres behind.” Githinji’s wife, Samantha Mutheu, said her husband left at 9am on Saturday morning to go to work as usual but failed to return in the evening. “His phone was off. He had called me at around 1pm to find out if our children had eaten. That was the last time we spoke,” Mutheu said. She said the following morning, boda boda riders came to her house to inform her that Githinji had been involved in an accident but were not sure whether he had survived. Boda boda operators usually indicate on the number plate the area in which they operate for easier identification. Githinji operated at Umoja 3 stage. Mutheu went to the police station and was informed that Githinji, 29, had died at the scene of the accident and had been taken to City Mortuary. “I have two children, one aged five and another aged two. Githinji was the breadwinner as I am unemployed. I really hope we find justice,” she said. Boniface, 31, lived with his wife and two children; one aged six and the other only five months old in Pipeline estate. The family described him as a very outgoing and hardworking man who loved his family very much. “In February, we lost another relative in a motorcycle accident. We are yet to recover from that then came this one. What a tough time?” lamented Wangui. The two families went to witness the postmortem conducted at City Mortuary on Monday and even though they know that their loved ones cannot be replaced, they hope that justice will be served. Edited by EKibii