More than 300 most vulnerable households in Kitui South have benefitted from food donations from MP Rachael Nyamai in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis. The beneficiaries included the elderly and the disabled. The MP said most of her constituents, especially the aged, the disabled, and those from very poor families, were in dire need of food, hence her decision to source from the national government to distribute to them. She said she is sourcing more food from well-wishers so the worst-affected families do not sleep hungry. "Most families across my constituency have been unable to put food on the table. I am sourcing for more food to ensure all families that are most affected by the ongoing pandemic get food,” Nyamai said. Catherine Kimwele said it had been difficult to put food on the table for her family since the country started battling the virus. She thanked the lawmaker for the assistance. "We are grateful for the donations as we will have sufficient food for the next week,” she said. Paul Mwangangi said he was his family's breadwinner but stopped working after the government ordered Kenyans to stay home to combat the spread of the virus. "I was a casual labourer at a local farm but ever since the government gave directions of staying home, my boss had to send some of the workers home and I was among them,” he said, adding that his family of 11 will enjoy the food as life has proved difficult for them. Christine Joseph, a mother of eight, could not hide her joy as she thanked the legislator for her kind gesture. "I am very grateful for the gesture. My children and I will not sleep hungry,” she said. The legislator also said she delivered the foodstuffs door-to-door to avoid congestion, which would make residents vulnerable to the contagion. "Most families we have visited belong to very elderly persons, the disabled and other most affected families. We had to visit them to ease the whole exercise and follow the government’s directives of keeping social distance,” she said. Nyamai reminded residents to continue adhering to set precautionary measures to combat the spread of Covid-19.  (Edited by F'Orieny)