The government plans to set up disease control units in 12 counties, the Agriculture ministry has said. PS Hamadi Boga confirmed on Monday that the ministry has submitted a proposal to get Sh4.5 billion from the World Bank for the projects. He said this was triggered by the response to the desert locusts. Components will go towards achieving various benefits, including livelihood support for communities and the sustenance of structures to fight pests and diseases, and the ongoing efforts. Prof Boga spoke to the Star on the phone. The PS explained that already, there is a migratory pest control unit in Kilimo under the Plant Protection Services. The desert locust invasion has intensified in Isiolo, Marsabit, Turkana, Wajir, Samburu, Garissa, parts of Laikipia and parts of Baringo counties. The Food and Agriculture Organisation, a UN agency, says Isiolo and Samburu are currently the epicentres of the invasion. “The main focus for this unit was to deal with desert locusts, tree locusts and quelea birds because the counties were dealing with the farm-level pests that can easily be managed by farmers with the right pesticides," Boga said. "But now that we have had to wrestle with these desert locusts for four months, and with climate change, other pests and diseases will come such as the fall armyworm. We want to look for funding from the World Bank to strengthen the Plant Protection Services department." Boga said strengthening the desert locust control operations is the entry point, and this includes getting personnel, equipment and technology like those in the locust control centre in Lewa Conservancy. “This also means having and exchanging knowledge, as well as interacting with other countries so we have fully qualified people who can run the operation. This will ensure we don’t crumble as we did at the beginning of the locust problem,” the PS said. The ministry will work with the Council of Governors on the modalities of how this will be done and on what each county needs. Boga noted that most of these diseases and pests are moved around by wind, birds and other vectors, hence each county will be dealing with specific pests and diseases. “Some of the diseases we are talking about are like the fruit fly that is making it difficult for the country to export fruits. Some of these pests are too complex for county operations, so it needs coordination from the national government. Strengthening the unit will ensure that we do not reinvent the wheel the next time a pest disaster happens,” Boga said. (Edited by F'Orieny)