A section of leaders from Garissa have faulted the national government for  evacuating seven non-local health workers from Bura in Fafi subcounty. On Saturday, a police chopper was dispatched to airlift non-local health workers from Bura Subcounty Hospital over fears of an impending al Shabaab attack. It was, however, not clear who gave the instructions that led to the evacuation. On his Facebook page, MP Abdikarim Osman said the action by the security team "is tantamount to ceding Fafi constituency headquarters to the ragtag terrorist outfit based on an unauthenticated and false security alarm". He added: “This is utter abdication of responsibility on the part of the national government. If indeed there is credible intelligence to the supposed attacks, it's expected that all the residents of Bura are to be secured instead of airlifting some few public servants.” “Besides, the idea of separating people into ‘locals’ and ‘non-locals’ binary plays right into the hands of the terrorists who have long endeavoured to achieve this divisive outcome.” The MP urged the government and the NEP Security Committee to immediately rescind the decision to evacuate medics, saying health facilities in the area, including Bura Subcounty Hospital, have no history of terror attacks. Osman said the government should instead deploy more security forces to the area. Residents said they read malice in the action, claiming the lives of medics are not under threat. “The security of the health personnel has never been under threat in any way, at least to the best of our knowledge. They are given full support by the area OCPD. It is worth noting that they don’t spend the night in hospital unless it’s an emergency like a mother delivering in which case two police escorts are provided,” resident Mutapha Khalid said. “Why then should the Interior ministry dispatch a helicopter to evacuate the health staff?  We believe the Kenyan government is deliberately causing artificial insecurity to attract donor funding at the expense of our people.” The incident comes four days after a police car travelling from Bura East almost hit an improvised explosive device that had been planted by the roadside. The IED went off seconds after the vehicle had passed. County commissioner Meru Mwangi remained guarded in his response, saying it is a matter he would not wish to comment about. In January, three non-local teachers were killed by militants at Kamuthe Primary School. The incident led to mass transfer of all non-local teacher by the Teachers Service Commission. The transfer was widely condemned by local leaders who described it as discriminatory and was hurriedly done without consultation.