Whoever came up with movies and series is truly heaven sent. Imagine a world without movies and series... quite boring, right. Well, this applies to people who are into entertainment, especially movies and series. So we now have to stay indoors most of the time, but what better way to make your stay at home interesting than having the right list of movies and series to watch. Staying indoors should not be boring. So why not try and watch these banger suggestions; 1. Extraction (Movie) Now this is a movie that everyone has been talking about. This Netflix original movie got everyone excited especially with the fact that Chris Hemsworth (Thor) is the star of the movie. According to Wikipedia, Extraction is a 2020 American action-thriller film directed by Sam Hargrave (in his feature debut) and written by Joe Russo, based on the graphic novel Ciudad by Ande Parks, Joe Russo, Anthony Russo, Fernando León González, and Eric Skillman. The film was released on April 24, 2020, by Netflix. It received mixed reviews from critics, who praised the performances and action sequences, but criticised both screenplay and excessive violence. A sequel is currently in development. 2. Gangs of London (series) If you love British action movies or series, then this is the series for you. Gangs in London series was created by Gareth Evans, best known for The Raid action crime films, along with Matt Flannery. Gangs of London tells the story of the city being torn apart by the turbulent power struggles of the international gangs that control it and the sudden power vacuum that's created when the head of London's most powerful crime family is assassinated. 3. The Resident The Resident is an American medical drama television series that premiered on January 21, 2018, on the Fox Broadcasting Company as a mid-season replacement in the 2017–18 television season. According to Wikipedia, the premier was a lead-out to the Vikings-Eagles NFC Championship Game. The series focuses on the lives and duties of staff members at Chastain Park Memorial Hospital, while delving into the bureaucratic practices of the hospital industry. 4. Bullet proof Bulletproof is a 1996 American buddy cop action comedy film directed by Ernest Dickerson. The film stars Damon Wayans and Adam Sandler. Archie Moses is a small-time thief in Los Angeles who smuggles drugs for drug lord Frank Colton, who launders his drug money through a car dealership. Moses is unaware that his best friend, Rock Keats, is actually LAPD undercover cop Jack Carter, who befriended him only to infiltrate Colton's gang. Carter has Moses include him in Colton's next drug shipment, secretly planning to arrest Colton and take in Moses, whom he has come to care about, unharmed. 5. Lincoln Rhym Lincoln Rhyme: Hunt for the Bone Collector is an American crime drama television series that premiered on NBC as part of the 2019–20 television season, on January 10, 2020. The series is based on the novel The Bone Collector by Jeffery Deaver. Well, the series follows NYPD officer Amelia Sachs, who partners up with disabled forensic expert Lincoln Rhyme and his team to solve cases in pursuit of the legendary serial killer, the Bone Collector. 6. Cherish the Day If you are into romantic movies and series then this is for you. Cherish The Day is an American romantic drama television series created and produced by the ever talented Ava DuVernay. The series chronicles the relationship of one couple, with each episode spanning a single day marking a significant moment. The full season of 8 episodes crossed 5 years. The series stars Xosha Roquemore, Alano Miller and Cicely Tyson, and the title references the Sade song "Cherish the Day".