Five Kenyans Scientists are among 29 African researchers awarded fellowships for outstanding work that is focused on the needs of the continent. The awards are under the Future Leaders – African Independent Research (FLAIR) fellowships. Early career African scientists receive up to US$391,500 (Sh41.56 million) each to conduct research over two years. Those awarded include Esther Muema (University of Pretoria, South Africa), Jesse Gitaka (Mount Kenya University), Lillian Wambua (International Livestock Research Institute, Kenya), Nicholas Musyoka (Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, South Africa) and Samuel Muiruri (International Institute of Tropical Agriculture IITA, Kenya). The five are among researchers drawn from African countries including Sudan, Ethiopia, Madagascar, Cameroon, Uganda, South Africa and Ghana. This is the second FLAIR cohort and is supported by the African Academy of Sciences and Royal Society, supported by the UK’s Global Challenges Research Fund. All the 29 will be supported by the (FLAIR) programme to develop independent research careers in African institutions and ultimately, lead their own research groups. The 2020 cohort of FLAIR funded scientists were selected from a pool of more than 400 applicants. Their research ranges from sustainable agriculture and fisheries, managing water shortages to mitigate climate change, clean energy and health. They join the 2019 intake of FLAIR fellows, who are already making a significant contribution to science on the continent in their fields. The scheme supports African researchers to develop into science leaders while establishing independent research careers on the continent. Muema’s project focuses on chickpeas. He says chickpeas not only provide nutrition but also use passenger bacteria, rhizobia, to lock nitrogen into soils, which in parts of South Africa are weathered and infertile. The researcher aims to identify local species of rhizobia bacteria to better understand their interaction with chickpeas, leading to enhanced crop production and soil fertility. Muiruri plans to speed up the breeding and cultivation process of cassava through genetic manipulation to induce premature flowering - fast-forwarding the adaptive capacity of the root. Musyoka seeks to curb pre-existing and challenging waste streams (plastic refuse, combustion exhaust, wastewater and use them to process raw biogas into biomethane. Wambua’s project studies infections from antimicrobial-resistant bacteria that are increasing in Africa.  She plans on first developing then deploying a prompt and sensitive diagnostic test to address these shortcomings. Jesse’s project researches how sexually transmitted infections can infect newborns in utero, leading to premature and stillbirths. Current tests are prohibitively costly, impractical or inaccurate and Jesse aims to overcome these issues and save lives by developing a screening method using common bacterial DNA markers associated with an infection to identify issues earlier. African Academy of Science executive director Nelson Torto said: “The AAS welcomes the new cohort of FLAIR grantees to our growing postdoctoral family.” Judy Omumbo, programme manager, affiliates and postdoctoral programmes, said, “We anticipate that the fellows will find the opportunities for networking and collaborations with other African scientists unique in supporting them in their pursuit of excellence in science for the benefit of mankind.” Richard Catlow, Foreign Secretary of the Royal Society, said climate change, food sustainability, emerging disease are challenges facing all. But the risks they pose to individuals and ecosystems across Africa are especially pronounced, he said. “That is why we’re proud to be part of a programme that is investing in the next generation of African scientific leaders, as they research solutions and adaptations to these challenges. The next round of FLAIR applications is currently open and will close on May 27, 2020.