West Pokot Senator Samuel Poghisio has been appointed the new Senate Majority leader. The changes were effected following a Jubilee Coalition Senate Parliamentary Group Meeting on Monday chaired by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Poghisio will now be deputised by Isiolo senator Fatuma Dullo Adan. In the new changes, Murang'a Senator Irungu Kang'ata has replaced Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika as the Majority Chief Whip. Kang'ata will be deputised by Wajir nominated senator Farhiya Ali Haji. State House spokesperson Kanze Dena-Mararon said 20 senators from both Jubilee and Kanu attended the meeting. "His Excellency the President congratulated the new Jubilee Coalition Senate leaders and assured them of his support," the communication by Kanze read in part. "The President who is also the Party Leader of the Jubilee Coalition said he looks forward to working closely with the new Senate Leadership in delivering services to Kenyans." The changes saw Deputy President William Ruto close allies Murkomen and Kihika lose their powerful senate positions. The changes come after the meeting between Uhuru and Kanu chairman Gideon Moi where the two agreed on the formation of a post-election coalition. In the Jubilee-Kanu post-election deal, the two political parties have named several policies and objectives which seem to be borrowing from the handshake. These include promoting and maintenance of security and safety of all Kenyans, fostering national unity, reconciliation and healing as well as fostering the equal distribution of national resources. Poghisio won his West Pokot senate seat during the 2017 general election through a Kanu ticket. The changes are expected to cause more divisions between the Kieleweke and Tangatanga groups within the Jubilee party. Murkomen has of late been a vocal critic of the government. He recently opposed the transfer of functions from Nairobi County to the national government. Murkomen said that the move was against the will of the people to practice their democratic rights of electing their leaders. The Elgeyo Marakwet senator also opposed the appointment of more military personnel to the newly formed Nairobi Metropolitan Service.