A bank employee who died in a car fire outside his Buruburu house on April 29 may have committed suicide, a police source told the Star on Monday. Other sources indicated that Terance Korir had prior to his death been leading a stressful life. Police have not concluded their investigations. Buruburu DCIO Adan Guyo said: “Let us wait for all the results to come out. Then we shall brief you.” Korir died in his car at Mai Mahiu Court on Katulo Road, Buruburu Phase 5. The Star established that detectives had asked for his files from his workplace, a bank in Westlands, to help in the investigations. Last week, pathologists dismissed theories that Korir could have been killed elsewhere and the body put in the car and set ablaze in a cover-up. “There was a lot of soot in the airway from the tongue to the lungs. This shows us that actually the person died in the fire…This is not a person who was planted in the fire. He was alive when he was burning,” chief government pathologist Johansen Oduor told journalists at Chiromo Mortuary after the postmortem last week. A detective who witnessed the postmortem said Korir's stomach was almost empty, an indication that he had not eaten for a while. Another detective based at Buruburu police station said that before the fire, Korir and his wife, Ruth Wanjiru, were scheduled for a counselling session. A day after the incident, five people including two security guards, two neighbours and his wife recorded statements at Buruburu police station. Neighbours said the couple loved each other, with Korir often seen escorting his wife to a nearby hospital where she worked. “He would take their firstborn in the car while escorting the wife to work before coming back to prepare for work,” a neighbour told the Star last week. But on the morning he died, Korir had left the house without informing his wife. She was alerted of the burning car by those who raised the alarm. Last week, Oduor said the fire was extraordinary. “In summary, he died in the fire incident in the car but the circumstances are what we cannot tell. What caused the fire we cannot tell,” he said. A family spokesman said nobody had been implicated in the death going by the results. “Let us remain together,” the family spokesman said. - mwaniki fm