Huawei held its 17th annual Global Analyst Summit in Shenzhen, both onsite and online. At the event, Huawei was joined by over 2,000 analysts, key opinion leaders, and media representatives from a range of industries, including telecoms, the Internet, and finance. Together, they discussed how the industry can work together to weather the difficult times, achieve win-win outcomes, and accelerate the arrival of the intelligent world. At the opening of the event, Huawei's Rotating Chairman Guo Ping delivered a keynote speech titled "Huawei: A Year and Beyond". Guo Ping started by sharing Huawei's experience and business results of the past year. He said, "Over the past year, many technologies became unavailable to us. Despite this, Huawei struggled to survive and is striving to move forward." Huawei has long been an active contributor to the ICT industry. Since it was founded, Huawei has been committed to bringing digital to more people, homes, and organizations, in order to move the world forward. In the past 30-plus years, Huawei has deployed over 1,500 networks in more than 170 countries and regions, serving over three billion people worldwide. It has also provided smart devices to 600 million consumers. US President Donald Trump's administration has warned that Huawei could be a vehicle for Chinese espionage and put the company on a so-called "entity list", meaning that U.S. corporations that conduct business with the telecoms giant now require special licenses to do so. The US actions against Huawei will not only harm Huawei but also the experiences of customers and consumers that use their products and services. ICT infrastructure is the foundation of the intelligent world. By 2025, the digital economy will represent an industry worth 23 trillion US dollars. The ICT industry still has great potential. Standing at the threshold of the intelligent world, we can see more opportunities than challenges for the ICT industry. Looking ahead, Huawei will continue investing and innovating in three domains: connectivity, computing, and smart devices. The firm said that it will work with customers, partners, standards organizations, and all other industry players in domains like supply chain, standards, and talent cultivation, to encourage open collaboration, promote inclusive industry development, and explore the future together. Guo Ping stated, "Today the world is an integrated collaborative system. The trend of globalization shouldn't and will not likely be reversed. Fragmented standards and supply chains benefit no one, and further fragmentation will have a severe impact on the entire industry. "The industry as a whole should work together to strengthen IPR protection, safeguard fair competition, protect unified global standards, and promote a collaborative global supply chain." The first Huawei Global Analyst Summit took place in 2004 and has been held annually ever since. This year's summit runs from May 18 to 20, with a series of parallel sessions. Attendees include industry experts from around the world, who discuss and share their insights into industry trends, tech trends, and global collaboration.