The University of Nairobi has decided to conduct examinations for theory courses online. The Star has learnt that the university senate — the supreme academic body responsible for regulating teaching and discipline — last week resolved to adopt a virtual testing method to avoid adverse disruption on the academic calendar. The public university's academic calendar is approaching the long holiday period that runs for three months. However, the coronavirus shutdown complicated matters. The UoN still had eight weeks to the end of its 2019-20 academic year. In response to the hitch, some institutions resorted to out-of-class learning, adopting virtual learning solutions. UoN vice chancellor Stephen Kiama said the institution is devising a three-step exam programme to be conducted through an Artificial Intelligence-proctored platform, along with manual invigilation. "We want the academic calendar least disrupted. The institution plans to adopt a different testing method so that those due to graduate in September are not affected," Kiama told the Star on Monday. He said the marks obtained by students in the exams will be scaled down as per the scheme of the examination of the respective course. Also, practical courses, seminars and projects or dissertations will be conducted using online video meeting applications. The VC said exams will be carried out once learning institutions reopen for those who are unable to appear for the online tests. "Students who cannot appear due to unavailability of internet connectivity should apply to their respective faculties via an online form along with proper justification to allow them to take exams when they reopen," Kiama said. The VC said the online exam option is set to save huge financial costs the institutions would have incurred in printing and administration of manual tests. He noted that the university issues 360,000 exams, equivalent to 8.5 million sheets of A4 paper or 1,000 trees each year. ONLINE LEARNING Kiama said most colleges and faculties had taken off and had posted good progress. The VC noted that some of the programmes are witnessing 100 per cent turnout while others are lagging behind. "We will collect and analyse the data in due time with the aim of establishing why there are huge discrepancies in attendance,"he said. The don noted that the Covid-19 crisis could trigger a permanent exodus from brick-and-mortar campuses to virtual ones. "This pandemic could be a blessing in disguise for institutions of higher learning. Some of these tools we adopted will remain long after the coronavirus has been neutralised," Kiama said. In particular, he predicts a major shakeup in post-graduate studies, saying graduate studies are more flexible to various out-of-class learning methods. "Some master's and PhD students spend long hours in traffic just to attend a one or two-hour class, slowly we are realising this is not necessary," he said. CRITIQUE However, concerns abound whether most institutions have the capacity to adopt virtual learning. George Omondi, a professor of human resources at the University of Nairobi, said their infrastructure is inadequate to support online learning. Omondi noted that unequal internet access in the country would lead to discrimination should institutions go the online way. “It is something we are not prepared for. Another critical issue is students who need to conduct practicals. How do they go about it online?” he asked. However, Kiama noted that online learning remains an untapped area, with much potential to be uncovered. He said the UoN will put in extra effort and investment to allow better access to online learning options. This will include building a custom Wi-Fi installation into one of its exam halls and wiring every desk to power and network.