National basketball team coach Cliff Owuor is seeking to organise three friendly matches for Morans ahead of their Afro-basket qualifiers in November. Speaking after yesterday’s zoom meeting with five members of the team, Owuor said he is speaking to DR Congo, Uganda and Rwanda. “We all agreed during the discussions that we need friendly matches against good sides,” he said adding: “This will be a great test for the team.” He went on: “More direction will be given during the next meeting on Monday, where I expect every member of the team to be available.” Owuor said his major focus is how to tackle their three opponents during the qualifiers. Kenya face powerhouse Angola, Senegal and Mozambique. “We had organised a friendly game with Morocco but unfortunately, the Covid-19 pandemic scattered the plans though we will still pursue it,” he said. Captain Griffin Ligare rallied the players to watch previous Afro-basket matches involving Angola against Uganda and Egypt vs Mozambique. “These games are clear picture of how beatable Angola are,” said Ligare. Assistant captain Tyler Ongwae asked players to start working on weights. “Players should hit the weight room because strength is a factor in the coming games,” said Ongwae, adding that the team needs to prepare mentally and physically. Others in attendance were assistant coach Sadat Gaya, Joseph Khaemba, Valentine Boozer and Algeria- based Ariel Okal. In another development, Fiba Africa President Anibal Manave has said it will still be possible to organise the Basketball Africa League (BAL) this year despite the current Covid-19 crisis. The game-changing event for African basketball was due to run from March to May across six countries with the final four slated for next month in Kigali, Rwanda before coronavirus pandemic brought everything to a halt. Manave said postponing the inaugural event came as a setback to the ambitious initiative. “We are currently facing a very complicated situation. Nobody can predict the future and we depend on guidelines from World Health Organisation (WHO) and Health Authorities.” He said there are good signs with some African countries beginning to relax their lockdown measures hence the project could resume by September. “Our hope is that the BAL’s first edition takes place in 2020. It is important to give all stakeholders involved a sign of confidence. That includes clubs, local federations, sponsors, and public. the best way to do this is by starting the competition,” he added. Manave said that Fiba Africa are working to find the best way out of the situation and are weighing three options including having the finals played in one country in a span of two weeks. He said it was important to mention that all 12 BAL participating teams have made significant investments, meaning they are committed to the BAL project.  “The teams have shown tremendous interest in participating in the inaugural BAL, and have made significant investments and it was important to give them a chance to make history as the BAL’s first-timers.” He added: “We will try to do everything in our power to make the BAL a reality this year as we don’t want to cancel it. Failure to organise it could cause real damage to the clubs’ finances.” If it becomes impossible to hold it this year, then decision will be made for next year. 