Boda boda riders want the state to support them to enforce hygiene and discipline in the sector as part of the efforts to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Through their association, the riders say that the government was yet to fulfil its promise of distributing free face masks and sanitiser to them. The riders said on Sunday said that should the state enforce the drastic actions it has threatened, many youths will be unemployed. “Boda bodas are providing employment and a source of livelihood to thousands of youth, both in rural and urban areas," they said. The sector has been identified by the Health ministry as a weak link in the containment of the coronavirus. Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe has called out the riders for ignoring regulations such as wearing masks, carrying one passenger and spacing out in their sheds. The riders say the government is right to chide offenders but it is doing little to support the sector. They said they have maintained cleanliness in their places of work by providing water and soap for handwashing and are also using the masks as ordered. The national and county governments must think beyond Covid-19 to ensure the riders continue to play their part in building the economy, they said. “As we seek to flatten the Covid-19 curve in Kenya, we must do it in a way that does not create other problems,” they said. Crime, inadequate training and reckless driving have bedevilled the sector. “The national government and counties must, therefore, address growing concerns about crimes the sector is being associated with, accidents and impunity, which are compromising public safety,” the lobby said. They said some of the challenges are attributed to the fact that the boda boda sector largely operates with minimal regulation and control. Bringing sanity in the sector by streamlining the regulatory and training frameworks and weeding out crime would make it more economically productive in the country, they added. “Authorities must shift focus from partial procedures against the virus to establish the prevalence of boda boda related crimes and accidents, their causes and measures that can be taken to make them a safer means of transport.” The government must examine the existing control measures to establish their effectiveness and ways of strengthening them, the riders' lobby said. “In addition, there is a need to have a structured training programme for the riders,” they said. (edited by o. owino)