THE NOW EX-SENATE Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen was mad at nearly every senator in the House on Tuesday. The Elgeyo Marakwet senator angrily told his adversaries that he will soon bounce back in a big way. The former university student leader was almost in tears after Minority leader James Orengo reminded the son of squatter that he had insulted the President against the Standing Orders. Nominated Senator Agnes Zani's defence of the President and her incessant interjections as Murkomen spoke passionately, appeared to further hurt the ex-majority leader. It was indeed a long day for Murkomen as his political enemies had the last laugh. **** AS DRAMA ENSUED in the chamber, two opposition senators joked outside and warned a nominated colleague that she was staring at a possible expulsion from Jubilee over her dalliance with Deputy President William Ruto. The two hugged, mocking their colleague that she was working on borrowed time in Parliament. The vocal senator, while asking the two to speak in a low tone, was overheard saying it won't be easy going forward to associate with the DP. But the two senators further loudly prodded her, saying her goose was cooked. The senator was thereafter seen making frantic calls, leaving her colleagues in suspense. It was not clear whom she was calling. Tough times ahead for DP allies indeed. ***** A PRINCIPAL SECRETARY touted to be well-connected in government circles has triggered a major storm in his ministry. He is said to have unilaterally engineered the transfer of three senior officials to a station outside Nairobi despite their advanced age. The trio is said to be in their late 50s and about to retire. But the PS moved them for unclear reasons. Some say their transfers are meant to pave the way for the hiring of his tribespeople in the coming days. The PS is also said to have influenced the posting of his cousin from a field office back to the head office and assigned the relative critical responsibilities including running errands for him. Many public servants wonder if the PS is not violating public service guidelines by arbitrarily deploying staff. ***** A SENIOR UNIVERSITY official is under siege. The official was recently dealt a major blow by a court which thwarted attempts to fraudulently snatch the institution from its founders. The jury concluded that the boisterous official doesn't have any moral authority to go after the institution. Co-workers say the official applies know-it-all and high-handed management style. Recently the university manager faced the wrath of auctioneers. They descended on the official's private property to reclaim the same for breach of contractual obligations.