The war against HIV has received a major boost after the government of India donated HIV medicines worth more than Sh150 million. The consignment received by the Health CAS Rashid Aman was donated through the Indian High Commissioner Rahul Chhabra. The World Health Organisation this week warned that gains made in the prevention of HIV mother-to-child transmission could be reversed. New HIV infections among children are expected to go up by as high as 104 per cent due to disruptions of the coronavirus. The WHO and UNAIDS said there is an urgent need to ensure efforts are made to mitigate and overcome interruptions in health services and supplies during the Covid-19 pandemic. “We are delighted to receive this generous donation of 204 packs of Tenofovir, Lamivudine and Dolutegravir tablets from the government of India,” Aman said. “This will increase the number being put on treatment for adult patients receiving first-line ARV treatment.” The Ministry has adopted the use of DTG-based ARV regimens as first-line treatment in adults diagnosed with HIV infection. These regimens have been proven to be highly potent, with a high genetic barrier to resistance and also have a good safety profile. Through NASCOP and other stakeholders, the ministry has made tremendous strides in prevention, diagnosis and treatment of HIV and  STIs. Out of an estimated 1.5 million people living with HIV, 95 per cent are on ARV treatment. According to the Kenya Health Information System data on clients on ARV treatment, there were 1,165,636 clients on treatment, comprising 1,095,220 adults and 70,416 children by the end of March. But according to the WHO, they are now at risk of having their treatment interrupted. The interruption would be due to the closure of HIV services, lack of supply in ARVs or as a result of overwhelmed services due to competing needs to support the Covid-19 response. “The terrible prospect of half a million more people in Africa dying of AIDS-related illnesses is like stepping back into history,” WHO Director General Tedros Ghebreyesus said. The WHO boss said some countries are already taking important steps such as ensuring that people can collect bulk packs of treatment and other essential commodities, including self-testing kits, from drop-off points. (edited by o. owino)