Public-private partnerships will help tourism and conservation sectors recover after the Covid-19 crisis ends, a forum has been told. Tourism and Wildlife Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala made the proposal Friday after hosting a webinar with over 700 stakeholders. “We need to have unity of purpose between NGOs, communities, conservancies and the private sector to carve a new way forward post this pandemic,” Balala said. Fauna and Flora International’s Conservation Ambassador for Africa Helen Gichohi moderated the meeting. Eminent wildlife and conservation policymakers, experts, investors and the regulator made presentations. They included Simon Mordue, EU Ambassador to Kenya, Fred Segor Wildlife PS, Giles Davies, founder, Conservation Capital, Winnie Kiiru, Senior Technical Advisor, Elephant Protection Initiative Foundation. Balala said there are about 150 NGOs in the sector who are vibrant. “We have the challenge of how to protect endangered species such as elephants and rhinos,” Balala said. The CS said poaching has declined in the country as strategies deployed are working. Balala said running KWS cost Sh7 billion of which 79 per cent of revenue was from foreign tourists. Kenya Wildlife Service Director General John Waweru said 10 out of 23 national parks generate 80 per cent of annual revenue from conservation. “Security and anti-poaching operations account for 50 per cent of the operational budget,” Waweru said. He called for a re-modelling of the wildlife sector by effectively deploying the technology. He said they have scaled-down operations by 60 to 70 per cent in 20 parks as a result of the pandemic. Waweru proposed the use of technology to identify and monitor animals as well as designing targeted educational and conservation programmes post-pandemic. Dickson ole Kaelo, CEO, Kenya Wildlife Conservancies Association urged county and national governments to work with wildlife stakeholders to improve the sector. Kaelo said that such an approach would ensure that the country’s Wildlife National Strategy, the Wildlife Act and other sector policies are implemented in a coordinated approach. Kaelo decried that KWS is overburdened and underfunded. Richard Vigne, MD, Ol Pejeta Conservancy emphasised a greater focus on productivity and profitability. A focus on immersive experiences to drive value for money and bed nights should be prioritised, Vigne said. He also called for the use of technology platforms to drive virtual conservation and wildlife experiences. Vigne said conservation needs “to meet social needs, protect wildlife and habitat”. “They are engines of economic development, they have to go together,” Vigne said. Vigne said they integrated 6,500 heads of cattle at the conservancy as doing so reduces the opportunity cost of conservation. Kiiru reiterated the importance of a unified effort in the sector to create sustainable financing and governance models for long term success. She advised that such efforts must drive the communities living in those conservancies too. Kiiru said there is a need to ban illegal wildlife trade, suspected to have caused Covid-19. Davies called for greater efficiencies in the sector and advised that to ensure sustainability; players in the sector would need to diversify revenue streams, with a greater focus on the domestic market as the first point of recovery efforts. Ambassador Mordue said the sector should not expect to go back to their pre-Covid-19 numbers, but that instead, they should expect a ‘new improved normal’ if they focused their efforts on diversification.  Over-reliance of conservancies on international tourism was a major risk, he said. He called for greater efforts to involve the youth in conservation across the country as climate change proponents. The EU through the International Fund for Animal Welfare is supporting some of the conservation activities. Some of these include law enforcement and anti-poaching in Greater Kilimanjaro Trans-Frontier Conservation areas during Covid-19 period. It has pumped Sh835,200 for operational support for community rangers, Sh3,469,900 for 38 community rangers' salaries during the pandemic and Sh1,118,945 for food of 38 community rangers.  (edited by o. owino)