Counties in the North Rift have shifted their focus to agriculture in a bid to help their economies recover from the effects of the coronavirus. The North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb) estimates that counties in the region have lost in excess of Sh5 billion in the last three months due to failure to collect revenue, other fees and charges, including land rates. Uasin Gishu, Trans Nzoia and Elgeyo Marakwet are some of the counties that have distributed fertiliser and seedlings to farmers. “We know the impact of the virus is going to be heavy on our economies, but we are putting in place measures to ensure our farmers grow food and commercial crops,” Uasin Gishu Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno said. Chemno presided over distribution of coffee, avocado and macadamia seedlings worth more than Sh45 million to farmers in Uasin Gishu. In Trans Nzoia, Governor Patrick Khaemba said agriculture provides more than half of the income and employment for residents and it’s a key sector that will drive economic recovery in the region. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, also Noreb chairman, said they are discussing with county assemblies in the region on economic recovery strategies to support collapsed small-scale businesses. Meanwhile, the government is enforcing strict inspection measures and fumigation of cargo being imported through Eldoret International Airport. It has also introduced tough measures to seal off border points in counties neighbouring Uganda, Ethiopia and South Sudan. The strict measures are aimed at stopping cross-border spread of Covid-19. Uasin Gishu county commissioner Abdirisack Jaldesa said all measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19 are being enforced at the Eldoret airport to ensure the cargo, airline staff and other workers are safe. “We have two to three cargo flights at the airport weekly, but we have ensured that all safety measures are in place so that the airport does not become a transmission centre. We are handling the facility with deserving strictness,” Jaldesa said. Cargo flights bring in mostly electronics and medical supplies. Trans Nzoia, West Pokot and Turkana counties, which have border points with neighbouring countries, have also introduced tougher screening measures. “We have surveillance teams operating along the borders where we have to ensure that brothers and sisters on both sides are safe. We are discouraging cross-border activities at the moment,” West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo said. More than 50,000 refugees living in counties in the North Rift are also being sensitised on Covid-19. Most refugees are in Turkana while West Pokot, Trans Nzoia and Uasin Gishu have integrated refugees from South Sudan. Edited by A.N