Chama Cha Mashinani leader Isaac Rutto on Wednesday said he had pushed for President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto to each lead on a five-year rotational model. The former Bomet governor said the arrangement would have cured the current suspicion that Uhuru is not likely to return the favour in  2022. “When I was with them, I used to insist on five years each, then another round of five-five so that we know indeed it was genuine,” Rutto said during an interview at Emmo FM. The initial succession plan between URP and TNA in 2013 was that Uhuru would serve for 10 years then support Ruto for another 10 years. Rutto was among the key people who founded the United Republican Party in the run-up to the 2013 General Election. When the DP led a push for the merger with Uhuru’s TNA in 2017, Rutto vehemently resisted the move. He ended up acquiring his own party, CCM, which he unsuccessfully used to defend his Bomet governorship. Rutto noted that had URP still been existing, the tribulations the DP’s allies are facing in Parliament would not have happened. “When I was a member of the URP, I cautioned them against getting into a new party. I was for us staying in URP and entering into a coalition and that way, we would have our own way of disciplining ourselves,” he said. He said Uhuru has, however, not publicly denounced his support for the DP in 2022. “We are still waiting for him to declare otherwise.” 'UHURU WANTED PEACE' Rutto narrated how one morning after the 2017 repeat presidential election, Uhuru dispatched his personal car to pick him from his home for talks on how to reconcile the country after the heated election. The President was so concerned about the post-election tension the country witnessed after he was declared the winner in the repeat race that ODM leader Raila Odinga declined to participate, the former governor said. “He told me elections were over and there were no personal differences. I don’t know how people voted but my interest is for Kenya to progress. He reminded me of the violence that erupted after 2007 and said he did not want a repeat of that,” Rutto said. “The point he kept insisting on was his agenda to unite Kenyans and that the huge political differences should not last. I saw him proceed in that direction until the March 2018 handshake with Raila. I was aware of the handshake deal because he had told me he was looking for all the top opposition politicians.” Rutto said the genesis of the fallout between the President and his deputy could be traced to the handshake. He also cited the constant campaign-like rallies across the country organised by the DP as part of the reason why the two Jubilee leaders are reading from different scripts. When asked to comment on the purge in Jubilee Party which is seen to be targeting allies of the DP, Rutto said, “The President is putting his house in order.” He said the action being taken against some members should not be seen as targeting Ruto but rather, “some members who no longer advance the party agenda and have resorted to using foul language against the President”. “If I was Uhuru, I would do the same. If you are a leader of the country, there must be order and government business in Parliament. If Uhuru wants to deliver on his Big Four agenda, the assembly must give him a budget,” he said. “The assembly should always be able to pass his development requirements, be it budget or other social development issues. Each political party must create order.” Rutto sought to set the record straight that his party will not sign a post-election coalition with Jubilee but will instead sign a cooperation agreement. He said his party has agreed to support the government’s development agenda, to contribute on how to resuscitate the economy post-Covid-19 and the passage of bills and motions in Parliament and county assemblies. When asked if his party MPs will support an impeachment motion against the DP if one was to be proposed in the National Assembly, Rutto said, “anything outside what is contained in the corporation agreement will be discussed on a need basis”. “The talks were between CCM and Jubilee and are on how to keep Kenya peaceful, how to address the economy after Covid-19, schools and moving forward for the next two years. We never discussed on who to vote for in 2022.” Edited by R.Wamochie