Ford Kenya Secretary General Eseli Simiyu could take over as minority deputy whip from Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa in the parliamentary changes to be made Thursday. Wamalwa is fighting accusations of loyalty to Deputy President William Ruto and has lost the confidence of opposition coalition National Super Alliance. He is likely to be kicked out during today’s Nasa Parliamentary Group meeting where other rebels MPs will also be removed from several assembly committees. Eseli, an experienced lawmaker, is being fronted for the job, essentially retaining it within Ford Kenya. In 2018, Ford Kenya Party leader and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula was replaced as Senate Minority leader, triggering a falling-out in the coalition. “The agenda [of today's meeting] are two, house leadership where Wamwalwa’s case is going to be discussed. It is members to remove him or retain him. The other issue is the reorganisation of the committees,” National Assembly Minority Leader John Mbadi told the Star. Mbadi said Eseli would be a good fit because the seat is Ford Kenya's and Nasa does not want to destabilise the coalition arrangement. “Our coalition arrangement talks of fairness in the allocation of seats in Parliament. The name of Eseli is coming up so strongly,” he said. Nine MPs perceived to be disloyal to the coalition will also be de-whipped during the PG meeting which will be held at Parliament’s main chambers from 2pm. “There are a few members we will definitely de-whip. We will give them a chance to defend themselves. They are about four, not more than five,” Mbadi said. The Star has established that the nine include Aisha Jumwa (Malindi, ODM), Silvanus Osoro (South Mugirango, KNC), Catherine Wambilianga (Bungoma MP, Ford Kenya), Bady Twalib (Jomvu, ODM) and Nasri Sahal (Nominated, Ford Kenya). Also to be de-whipped include Tindi Mwale (Butere, ANC), David Ochieng' (Ugenya, MDG), Lodepe Nakara (Turkana Central, ODM) and Vincent Kemosi (West Mugirango). Minority whip Junet Mohammed said he will be proposing that the PG bars the errant lawmakers from any committee for the next six months. “We are going to do through disciplinary action on members who have not performed,” Junet said at his office on Wednesday. At the same time, ODM is still keen on having Jumwa out of the lucrative Parliamentary Service Commission and will be revisiting the issue after effecting the changes in the committees. The Star understands that the rest of the minority leadership will be retained. Currently, Mbadi is the minority leader deputised by Kathiani MP Robert Mbui (Wiper), Junet Mohammed is the minority whip with Wamalwa (Ford Kenya) as his deputy. In the Senate, Siaya Senator James Orengo is leading the minority side with his Kakamega counterpart Cleophas Malala (ANC) as the deputy. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo (Wiper) is the minority whip with Beatrice Kwamboka (ODM) assisting him. MPs who often skip their respective committee meetings will also be moved from those committees to less active ones. Both the majority and minority sides are hell-bent on having loyal members in at least three reforms relevant committees which will be crucial in passing some of the BBI report recommendations which will not require a referendum. The committees include the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee, Constitutional Implementation Oversight Committee and Delegated Legislation of both houses.