The Lamu Council of Elders has proposed the formation of a committee to help conserve the region’s culture. The elders feel Lamu’s culture is at constant threat of extinction, especially from western influences. Lamu Old Town was listed by Unesco in 2001 as a World Heritage site due to its well-preserved Swahili culture spanning centuries. There have however been concerns that the entry of western elements could see the town delisted. These include tuk-tuks, alongside boda boda and vehicles. Currently, there are about 200 boda bodas and at least 10 tuk-tuks in the town. Lamu’s well-preserved heritage continues to be the region’s biggest tourist attraction. The elders are of the opinion that a special committee will control the spread of westernisation. They want to be part of the committee once formed. Speaking in Lamu town on Monday, deputy chairman Mohamed Mbwana, also a renowned historian, expressed reservations with upcoming projects such as the Sh.2.5 trillion Lapsset and the Sh200 billion coal plant. The elders said the two projects, in particular, are expected to attract at least 1.5 million people to Lamu once operational, hence the need for stringent measures. Mbwana urged Governor Fahim Twaha to consider establishing a heritage committee that will, in turn, be tasked with making the rules. “There are many external forces threatening our culture and heritage. As a people, we need to be able to cushion ourselves from that and that’s why as elders we are proposing the formation of a committee that will do just that. Since elders are the best custodians of history and culture, we ask to be part of the committee,” he said. Stakeholders agree that the many upcoming massive projects are slowly shaping Lamu into the next frontier for trade. The council's secretary general Mohamed Athman said without regulations to guard against external influence, Lamu could soon turn into a headless and visionless town like the biblical Sodom and Gomorrah. Lamu Cultural Festival Promotional Group chairman Ghalib Alwy urged the county government to invest more in annual festivals that have previously successfully sold the region’s culture to the world. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya