Jubilee vice chairman David Murathe has rubbished claims that only a handful of senators went to meet their party leader. Speaking just hours after  Senate Majority Leader and Whip were replaced at a meeting at State House, Murathe said it was illogical that some senators claim they have the numbers and yet they do not turn up for PG meeting. "It is illogical that you have the numbers and you run away from the PG... tomorrow, you will get a list of people who were there," he said during an interview on KTN, Monday night. "Everybody was invited... there is no single senator who does not have an sms sent by our party leader Uhuru Kenyatta." Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and his Nakuru counterpart Susan Kihika who were replaced claimed that the meeting and decisions at State House were null and void as the necessary procedures were not followed. According to the two, some of the Senators said to have been in the meeting were not there bringing into question the purported voting. "It is gross insubordination not to attend a PG summoned by party leader. If they had the numbers they should have attended and shot down the proposal," Murathe said. "The speaker will receive the names of the people who attended plus their signatures and he will make a communication from the chair." Noting that the party clean up will reach the national assembly, Murathe said they are focusing on the big four agenda. "... you cannot do this with hostile members who are both in the senate and national assembly," he said. Murathe further said that the party has not sidelined DP William Ruto from any gatherings or meetings. "We are not alienating anybody...he was busy in Karen telling people not to attend the meeting," he claimed. "When you marry a woman, you do it in church before men and take your vows. If you realise that the relationship is not tenable you divorce. It might not be the husband but the wife who is 'tanga tangaring' with young boys." He however noted that there was nothing wrong with bringing KANU on board. "You heard the wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka saying he wants a cooperation with Jubilee...what is wrong with bringing KANU? KANU is from rift valley and they are opposing this.. it means they are opposing themselves," he said. Article 9 of the party constitution gives the party leader power to enter into coalitions with any other party. "Raila Odinga controls one half of the country, Uhuru Kenyatta controls the other half, what's wrong with a handshake with Raila?"he posed. Murathe said Jubilee is planning new formations ahead of the next general election. "Jubilee can translate to a new big party. Jubilee's idea is to bring all the leadership and communities together. The new formations will be bigger and better," he said. According to Murkomen, the State House did not send an invitation to Senators allied to the Deputy President William Ruto. "There was no invitation extended to any of us, especially 22 Jubilee Senators for the meeting at State House." Kang’ata will be deputised by Wajir nominated Senator Farhiya Ali Haji. State House spokesperson Kanze Dena-Mararon said 20 senators from both Jubilee and Kanu attended the meeting. Murkomen dismissed the changes at the State House saying the members the meeting that is purported to have raised the quorum is not true. The Nakuru Senator has already disputed the changes saying that the members who attended the meeting did not reach the quorum needed to make such changes. In a letter addressed to Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka on Monday, Kihika alongside 21 other senators claimed that they were only informed through the media that there was a meeting for Jubilee Party senators. 