Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has urged employers not to fire their staff because of the Covid-19 crisis. Mutua said employers should retain their workers and offer them a pay cut instead. He spoke on Monday as he received donations from different organisations. The county chief said the crisis has disrupted business and hurt everyone, hence it should not be used as the basis for layoff. "We should be prioritising each other during this pandemic. So I urge the employers that instead of firing workers, you can opt to pay them half of their salaries until this crisis is gone," Mutua said. Mutua also condemned the surge in gender-based violence in Kenya and urged church leaders to advocate against it. "I urge all of us to make a conscious effort to ensure that the family unit remains strong during this Covid-19 period," he said. "Societal challenges like teenage pregnancies, gender-based violence and rape have escalated during this period. I call on all of us to be mindful of others, ingrain good virtues in our children and young adults,  and look out for the victims during this tough time." Mutua said early pregnancy is a problem, which, if not fought, will undo the successes the country has achieved. Different organisations donated foodstuffs, handwashing jerrycans, sanitiser and knapsack sprayers, among other items. They included KCB Bank, Konza Technopolis, Golden Afrika, Broadway Bakery, Kwetu Sacco, Plan International, Eastern Community Development Programme, Orbit Chemicals, Kifaru Millers Ltd and the World Vision. The organisations said their contributions are meant to support the war on the virus and promote the wellbeing of Kenyans. Mutua attributed the support to the goodwill between his administration and players in different sectors. He said other well-wishers have promised to make their contributions towards the fight against the virus. "Their generosity is appreciated and will go a long way in ensuring our people do not lack food during this tough period. I invite other well-wishers to support our Covid-19 support programme. I give my personal assurance that all support received will be accounted for," he said.  (Edited by F'Orieny)