Only 12.4 per cent of Kenyans have sought health services as the country grapples with Covid-19, a  KNBS report has revealed. The report released by KNBS on Tuesday showed that at least 30.5 per cent cited government hospitals as the health care service provider that was visited. This report was out of a survey implemented using a Computer Assisted Telephone Interviews approach in which the interviews are conducted through telephone. The data was a collection of the first wave of six biweekly surveys that was undertaken between May 2 and 9. A total of 15,840 people were interviewed with a 97 per cent response rate. According to the report, 12.4 per cent of the households interviewed reported that a member of the household sought health services over the period under review. Approximately, 24.5 per cent sought medication in private hospitals and clinics. Some 17.9 and  14.7 per cent visited government dispensaries and other government health centers respectively. The report showed that about 6.8 per cent of sick Kenyans sought medications from pharmacies and chemists while 3 per cent resorted to faith-based mission hospitals. Meanwhile, the report revealed that 99.4 per cent of Kenyans have knowledge of the coronavirus. Kenyans suffering from other illnesses have constantly been encouraged to seek treatment in hospitals. Many have opted to self-medicate, fearing they will be put in quarantine if they go to hospitals. Last week, Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya said counties have put in place precautionary measures, including separation of suspected cases of Covid-19 from other medical cases to limit infection risk. He said the government is concerned that patients with other illnesses were shunning hospitals because of coronavirus stigma. "We wish to encourage members of the public who are unwell to continue visiting our medical facilities to access medical attention to avoid unnecessary deaths at home," he said. The Kakamega governor warned that shunning hospitals was dangerous and could worsen the conditions of those with chronic illnesses.