The Labour Court has reinstated Youth Enterprise Development Fund CEO Josiah Moriasi, a week after he was fired by the board. Moriasi, through lawyer Okong’o Omogeni, challenged the board’s decision not to renew his contract. The contract expired in October last year but was extended by six months. The board was appointed six months ago. Last week, the board voted five to four to sack Moriasi. He joined the board on October 21, 2016 on a three-year contract. He was replaced as CEO by Benson Muthendi, the Fund’s public relations manager, in acting capacity. Muthendi was appointed by Cabinet Secretary for ICT, Innovation and Youth Affairs Joe Mucheru. The board, through chairman Victor Mwongera, had recommended the appointment of Judy Kimeto, the lending and investments manager. On Monday, Justice Hellen Wasilwa barred the board from terminating or dismissing Moriasi before his case is resolved. The court ordered that the board be served with the application and set May 13 as the hearing date or soon thereafter as may be directed by the deputy registrar. Moriasi said the board disregarded performance evaluations conducted by State Corporations Advisory Committee in the last two years which gave him a score of 86 and 89 per cent respectively. At a board the meeting on April 27, some board members declined to consider the evidence that he had tendered to renew his term.  They debated the matter and voted on the resolution based on personal judgment, he says. “It is clear from the foregoing, that I was condemned unheard and not presented with the purported evidence or given a chance to defend myself,” he says in the application. He added that the four board members who supported his reappointment did so based on the evidence presented. Samwel Kumba, Amos Mogeni, Joseph Birundu and Edna Atisa supported Moriasi’s reappointment because he had excelled based on past performance evaluation reports. Those who opposed his reappointment are Youth PS Julius Korir, Grace Kibuku, Susan Mambo, Catherine Kasimu, and Roy Telewa. They were not convinced by his performance. (edited by o. owino)