The EACC has directed Uasin Gishu to suspend a plan to buy the National Bank building in Eldoret for Sh570 million pending investigations. MPs and residents of the county had written to investigative agencies to stop the plan after the county assembly hurriedly approved the proposal by Governor Jackson Mandago's administration. EACC deputy director for North Rift Jackson Baithalu has written to Uasin Gishu county secretary Edwin Bett demanding all documents concerning the purchase deal. “The commission is seized of information that the county has irregularly or is in the process of irregularly purchasing [a] building within Eldoret town. To facilitate investigations, kindly provide the listed documents,” Baithalu said in his letter. The EACC wants more than 15 documents, including an approved procurement plan, a certified copy of the advertisement for bidders, a certified copy of bid bonds, a certified copy appointing a tender opening committee and letters appointing a tender evaluation committee. Others include a technical evaluation report, notification of awards and regret letters to bidders, government evaluation report and sale agreement or contract. The purchase has sparked a row in Uasin Gishu. Some leaders and residents are asking why the county has insisted on the purchase yet it had been stopped by the assembly last year. Eight MCAs who voted against the deal argued that the county has more than 20 stalled mega projects. Through Tripple K Advocates, residents led by Benjamin Kiptanui have written to the Senate, the Controller of Budget, the EACC, the DCI and other organs to have the plan investigated. Kiptanui says there was no public participation and the building was over-valued. He says the county claims in its purchase plan that it needs more offices yet contradicts itself by saying the building will be leased to the bank for six years. “This clearly defeats the purpose for which the county says it needs extra offices because it does not plan to use the building," Kiptanui says. The county assembly last year shot down the deal over the valuation of the building, which is in a dilapidated state, and lack of necessary approvals. A report on the same deal was brought back to the assembly on Sunday. Eight MCAs rejected the purchase while 32 backed it. MPs, led by Kapseret's Oscar Sudi, have opposed the deal while some residents have threatened to sue to stop it. Sudi said the deal is suspect and a waste of public money. This is the first time Sudi has publicly differed with Mandago. In a social media post, Sudi told Mandago to stop the purchase, warning that “Uasin Gishu county does not have fools”. He said the county has land on which to build its own facilities at cheaper costs. Sudi said Governor Alfred Mutua of Machakos had spent about Sh300 million to build state-of-the-art county offices and asked why the Uasin Gishu deal was so costly. MCAs who opposed the deal said the county has many stalled projects that should be completed to benefit residents. “We don’t need more offices in town because county staff are supposed to be deployed in the wards to serve residents not to idle in Eldoret,” Huruma MCA Peter Chomba said. The building is adjacent to the county headquarters along Uganda Road in Eldoret town. A spot check of the current county offices shows many are not in use and have been abandoned. The eight MCAs who opposed the purchase include Chomba, Francis Muya (Langas), Gilbert Tenai (Cheptiret), Phillip Melly (Moi's Bridge), Edwin Maraswo (Simat), Samwel Choge (Tapsagoi) and Mary Goretti (nominated). Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya