The weatherman has warned of strong winds above 25 knots over the eastern part of the country. The Kenya Meteorological Department has said more rains are expected in most parts of the country over the coming week. “Rainfall is expected to continue over parts of the Rift Valley and strong southerly winds above 25 knots will be experienced over the eastern half of the country,” it said in a seven-day weather forecast. Parts of the Lake Victoria Basin, the highlands west of the Rift Valley, Central and the South Rift and the highlands east of the Rift Valley are likely to continue receiving rainfall. The counties affected include Siaya, Kisumu, Homabay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia. Others are Nairobi, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu and Tharaka. Some parts of the Northwest and the Coastal Strip may also receive some rainfall during the period, while most of the counties in the Northeast and Southeast Lowlands are likely to remain dry. In Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu counties, days are likely to be sunny and nights partly cloudy for much of the forecast period. Afternoon showers and thunderstorms may occur over a few places between Thursday and Saturday. A few places may receive morning rains on Friday while evening showers are likely to occur over a few places on Thursday. Nairobi, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu, and Tharaka counties will have sunny intervals in some areas but rains may occur over a few places on Thursday and Friday, with partly cloudy nights. “Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo counties are likely to be sunny during the day and partly cloudy nights throughout the forecast period. The same weather may be expected in Kajiado, Kitui, Makueni, Machakos and Taita Taveta counties, but afternoon showers may occur over a few places on Wednesday,” the forecast states. The coastal counties of Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale will receive showers in the morning and afternoon over a few places between Tuesday and Friday, as well as Monday. "Nights are likely to be partly cloudy for much of the forecast period. Evening showers are likely to occur over a few places on Wednesday,” MET said. (Edited by F'Orieny)