A section of senators has reached out to ousted Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen and former Chief Whip Susan Kihika urging them to accept the ruling by Speaker Ken Lusaka on the new changes. Murkomen and Kihika were replaced by West Pokot Senator Samuel Poghisio and Murang’a’s Irungu Kang’ata respectively. Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang' encouraged Poghisio to unite the Jubilee team while asking the two senators to move on with life. "You are leading a divided team. Your first mandate is to unite your team," he said during senate proceedings on Tuesday. But he also congratulated Murkomen for the good work he has done since he became the majority leader. "Where he (Murkomen) has reached is not a mean feat... at 42, he broke the glass ceiling... he succeeded to get to a job, a difficult job when we were resisting. He has done his bit and we shall still play football together," he said. Kajwang' said that the Senate faces challenges which if they do not address post-covid-19, then they will not rest. "The bureaucracy of this country is too expensive. With the drama coming out of Senate there are people who think we are not working. The leadership of this House must be relevant in oversight and monitoring this country," he said. Senator Johnstone Sakaja also took time to congratulate the new appointees. "This team is up to the task and that they will not let us down.  I thank Murkomen and Kihika for the leadership they have shown us," he said. "They have been diligent. They had confidence in me. But this is a leadership journey. Murkomen is a champion for devolution and I want to encourage the coming leadership to up their game." Sakaja said there were 20 senators who made the decision adding that it is bad for one to be called by the president and not heed the call. "When we say oversight, you can oversight and question issues but not of your party leader. They shall say the truth in a humble way but not attacking the personality of the president," he said. Earlier, Murkomen took the chance at the Senate to take a swipe at President Uhuru Kenyatta who chaired the State House Meeting that led to his ouster, accusing him on not being truthful to the House. "I want to tell the president to stop lying to the Senate. You said you will give Senate Oversight Fund. Give them. If Murkomen was the problem, he is now not there. Sign all the bills!" the Elgeyo Marakwet Senator said. But Sakaja said Murkomen and Kihika's future is bright adding that they should not burn bridges. "It might be exciting to use terrible words for the Head of State right now, but do not burn bridges, we shall continue to work together," he said. Migori Senator Ochillo Ayako said he has been in a similar situation in his political career but he never gave up. “I have been on that road in my life. You work tirelessly for a party then when you disagree in principle, you part ways,” he explained. He told Murkomen and Kihika not to treat the ousting as a matter of life and death. Vihiga Senator George Khaniri congratulated Poghisio and Kang’ata and said legislators should not question Lusaka. “The Speaker made communication and a ruling. He was satisfied that the process was followed. Who are we to doubt him?” he posed. He added that Murkomen and Kihika have a bright future saying the ouster will provide them with new opportunities.