The Senate has been asked to investigate the alleged leasing of 13 intensive care unit (ICU) and high dependency unit (HDU) beds and ventilators in Isiolo. In her petition on Tuesday, Senator Fatuma Dullo cited social media reports that the equipment was only "borrowed" from a private facility. Dullo implored the Senate to probe the veracity of the launch of the equipment by Governor Mohamed Kuti on April 12. Deputy Speaker Kithure Kindiki directed the Health committee chaired by Trans Nzoia Senator Michael Mbito to investigate the allegation. “In the statement, the committee should ascertain the veracity of the alleged launch of 13 ICU and HCU beds and ventilators by the Governor of Isiolo County on April 12,” Dullo said in her statement. Further, the senator wants the committee to investigate and establish the alleged intimidation of residents by county officials. The intimidation, according to Dullo, is of the residents who allegedly circulated video and photographic evidence in open-source media. The photos on social media show a pick-up being loaded with equipment outside the private hospital and the same vehicle entering the referral facility. The photos elicited reaction on social media with the governor being put on the receiving end. Some users claimed he ‘borrowed’ the beds and ventilators for a ‘photo session’ to prove that his government was prepared to combat Covid-19 pandemic. The committee is also investigating the expenditure of Sh40 million by Kuti’s administration meant to fight the contagion. Dullo, who is also the Senate deputy Majority leader, demanded that the investigation report be tabled in the Senate for scrutiny by all members and ensure culprits are brought to book. “I also want to know the measures the committee plans to put in place to ensure transparency and accountability in counties with respect to the Covid-19 pandemic response.” Kuti did not respond to inquiries by the Star but he was quoted in a section of media saying that all the equipment was sourced from Mission for Essential Drugs and Supplies and that all supporting documents were available. “We bought all the 13 beds from MEDS and have the documents. Whatever is circulating online is propaganda being peddled by leaders who never appreciate any good work being done by my government,” the governor was quoted saying.  - mwaniki fm