A man convicted of murdering a caretaker over a spoon will now serve 15 years instead of a life sentence. The decision by the Nairobi appellate court comes after Joseph Wanjohi Ndungu’s charges were reduced to manslaughter by the court. Joshua Nkuruna, the deceased was the caretaker of premises within Bisil trading center in Kajiado County where Ndungu resided as a tenant. “On the night of January 11 and 12, 2012 Ndungu and his two co-accused persons who had been drinking alcohol left the bar for dinner at Ndungu’s house,” court documents said. At home, Ndungu realized he did not have spoons for everyone when he remembered he had previously given Nkuruna a spoon. He hurled insults at the deceased while throwing stones at his house. A cousin to the deceased testified that he saw the accused perch on top of the deceased while holding a knife. He further saw Ndungu flee and lock himself in his house leaving the deceased with a stab wound. Defending himself of the murder charge before the High Court, the accused admitted that he and the deceased had disagreed when the latter demanded that he should reduce the volume of his radio. Despite the disagreement, Ndungu denied participating in the murder of the deceased. Later in the night, police officers came to his house and arrested him. In conclusion, the learned judge was satisfied that the Ndungu acted with homicidal intent. Ndungu was thus convicted of murder and sentenced to life. On appeal a three-judge bench ruled that the accused was intoxicated in the whole process thus he had an impaired mind. “After he stabbed the deceased, he simply retired to his bed and slept as if nothing had happened,” Judges Martha Koome, Mohammed Warsame, and Fatuma sichale ruled. The appellate court thus quashed the conviction and slashed the life sentence. “We substitute a conviction for manslaughter…and sentence of 15 years imprisonment with effect from the date of the appellant’s conviction and sentence by the High Court,” the court ruled.