AN INFLUENTIAL MP eyeing the Mombasa governor seat is staring at a rude end to his political career after an alleged falling out with Governor Hassan Joho. The MP is protesting what he alleges to be a scheme by Joho's allies to position his rival in the race for the powerful position in the 2022 election. Initially, the MP was seen as Joho's favourite but the changing political dynamics in the coastal city could have pushed him to the periphery. ***** A SENATOR FROM one of the counties in Nyanza shocked his governor when he claimed in the Senate that the county chief has not implemented any project. The remark may have far-reaching political consequences for the senator, who is eyeing the governor's seat in 2022. The governor is said to be furious, given his sterling performance. What had appeared to be a guaranteed ticket for the senator to succeed the governor is becoming increasingly complicated. The senator initially appeared to have the blessing of ODM leader Raila Odinga but this could change. ****** SOME ALLIES OF Deputy President William Ruto were overheard claiming that the President's camp could be trying to intimidate a critical office. The DP's allies say their rivals could be harassing and intimidating the office at the heart of their party woes. It is said a scheme could have been hatched to bulldoze far-reaching yet controversial Jubilee decisions at a time when the office has no substantive holder. With the position having been advertised recently, the DP's troops now believe the whole issue is linked to a deliberate effort to have the officer rubberstamp some decisions in exchange for the appointment. Only time will tell. ****** A KEY ROADS agency could soon find itself in a mess after a contractor recently awarded a controversial tender to re-carpet roads in Kisumu region did a shoddy job. It is alleged that the contractor, a former MP, could have failed to meet the requisite standards in constructing a couple of roads within the county, exposing the agency. It is not clear why the ex-MP's firm has been a beneficiary of lucrative tenders by the agency despite most of his work elsewhere cited as being substandard. At least two key roads repaired within the county last year are now badly damaged. An influential youth group wants to petition Parliament over the matter.