There was a long day standoff between Machakos county police commander John Muiruri and former Senator Johnson Muthama at KBC police station in Matungulu, Machakos County. Muthama stayed put at the station after police led by Muiruri ordered them out of the controversial KBC land earmarked for resettling Ruai evictees. He had led a team of Machakos residents and leaders to the land after they got information that there were government officers surveying and subdividing the parcels for squatters resettlement. A team of government officials, including land surveyors, was already conducting the subdivisions when Muthama and his team interrupted. Police forced the lot out of the land prompting Muthama to go camp at KBC police station. Muthama accused individuals of stealing land belonging to the Kamba community in broad daylight. He said those who claimed were government officials had nothing to show so despite being protected by police. "This land belongs to the Kamba community, I will not allow cartels to grab it, " Muthama told the press at KBC police station. He dared police to arrest him. Muthama said those purporting to be government officials subdividing the land were in contempt of court since there was an active court case between the government and Koma Ranching Association. He demanded to return with his team to the land they were ejected from or else he doesn't leave the station. Attempts by Muiruri to persuade him to leave the station were futile. Muiruri said the government officers surveying the land were legitimate and the police were just offering them security to execute their mandate. "This is government land and the officers surveying and subdividing it are government officers, we are giving them the security to execute their mandate, " Muiruri said. He said Matungulu's deputy county commissioner had received a letter requesting him to provide the officers with security. Police cordoned off the entire parcel as Muthama spent the whole day at the station. Things, however, turned when goons attacked the surveyors, they were stoned and some of the government vehicles they were using had their windscreens smashed. They prematurely halted the exercise as they scampered to safety. Police officers who were on the land called for re-enforcement and all the government officers escorted to KBC police station. Muthama later left the police station after the surveyors vacated the land.