Deputy President William Ruto allies have alleged a scheme by state operatives to weaken key state agencies as well as independent constitutional commissions. They claimed there is a scheme to undermine the independence of the judiciary, neutralize the office of the DPP, and paralyse the national assembly. MPs Didmus Barasa (Kimilili), Sylvanus Osoro (South Mugirango), and Nelson Koech (Belgut) raised the issue during a presser at Parliament Buildings on Thursday. They were joined by MPs Kimani Ichung’wa (Kikuyu), Jayne Kihara (Naivasha), Kimani Ngunjiri (Bahati), Moses Mabonga (Bumula), Muchiri Nyaga (Manyatta), and Victor Munyaka (Machakos Town). They claimed a plot to silence lawmakers that are critical of President Uhuru Kenyatta's style of administration. The leaders said this would be executed through threats of recall and removal; threats to life; withdrawal of personal security; and targeted harassment of the respective leaders’ spouses and children. The MPs claimed there are also arrangements to apprehend MPs on fabricated charges by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, EACC, and KRA. “This is in order to wear out such leaders by shuttling them between courts and police stations in the name of trumped-up charges,” the MPs said. “The nefarious scheme will be undertaken using the now-familiar tactics of intimidation, blackmail, and extortion of judicial officers and MPs,” they added. They said it was unfortunate that the institutions Kenyans look to for protection against violations “are being cannibalized, compromised and commandeered to reverse into a terrible past.” “We are being led back at gunpoint to a place we swore never to visit again, by people who swore to defend and uphold the Constitution,” the leaders said. The politicians said they would not be cowed by the forces against them saying they will forge ahead without hesitation, fear, or regret. “We will resist attempts to break the Jubilee party. We will also strive to protect the independence of Parliament, DPP, Inspector General of Police, and the Judiciary,” the MPs said. The DP’s allies added that the intention of those on their case “is to inflict immense stress and anxiety on affected persons to the point of exhaustion.” The leaders further claimed there were plans to inflict actual physical harm on lawmakers critical of the government’s excesses. The MPs claimed there are plans to eliminate certain MPs in retaliation and as a warning to others over their political views. “MPs have reported credible threats to the DCI yet nothing has been done by way of meaningful investigations,” the leaders said. The lawmakers cited reports of assassination threats targeting DP Ruto, which they claim are yet to be investigated a year later. To them, the disbandment of the DCI’s Flying Squad followed after details of plans to harm political leaders leaked out. Barasa and company further condemned the planned removal of Senate Deputy Speaker Kithure Kindiki, as well as the already executed ouster of Kipchumba Murkomen as Senate Majority leader, and Susan Kihika who was ejected as Majority whip. “This is the height of betrayal of individuals who worked hard for Jubilee to win and guarded the institutions they were mandated to run,” they said.