President Uhuru Kenyatta has announced the country has recorded 49 new Coronavirus cases and five new coronavirus death in the last 24 hours. This now raises the country's total coronavirus cases to 830. Speaking on Saturday from State House, Nairobi, Uhuru said the country's fatalities has now hit 50. "It is disturbing to note that close to 30 per cent of these recorded deaths occurred at home," he said. The President said the country has now discharged 301 people from Kenya's healthcare facilities. 481 others are currently undergoing treatment. "If we had not taken tough steps, the Public Health Emergency Operation Centre calculates that there would be many thousands of infections, and indeed many more fatalities," he said. The President said in the last week, we reported an increase in the number of cases crossing into the country. "In the last week we have unfortunately witnessed an increased number of imported cases among individuals crossing into our countries through our borders; these areas have become a matter of grave concern to us," he said. Uhuru said a total of 43 cases crossed into Kenya from Somalia and Tanzania. Out of these, 14 crossed the border at Wajir, Namanga (16), Isebania (10), Lunga Lunga (2) and one from the Loitoktok border point. The President said 78 truck drivers who are foreign nationals tested positive for the disease. Uhuru said these truckers were denied entry into Kenya's territory at different border crossings. "If we had not undertaken this intervention, the imported cases through our borders would have today accounted for more than 50 per cent of the week’s infections," he said. The President said within Kenya's borders, infections have now spread to 22 of our 47 Counties. The President warned if the country does not take additional precautionary measures and be strict in implementing existing guidelines, the number of people who will get sick and die is going to rise sharply. "Even though the measures we are putting in place are inconvenient to all of us, the far worse outcome is for this pandemic to grow out of control," he said.