During this time of lockdown, we are using our mobile phones to communicate and some of the employers need documents sent to them. They require scanned documents sent to them. We have got you covered with some of the scanning mobile applications. Adobe scan is one of the scanning applications you can use. This mobile document scanner will turn anything including receipts, notes and photos into an Adobe PDF with content you can reuse from each PDF and photo scan. It has the advanced image technology which automatically detects your document's borders, sharpens scanned content, and recognises text. You can also enhance scans with the scanning and editing app by touch up photo scans and documents from your camera roll whether it is PDF or photo you can preview, reorder, crop, rotate, and adjust colour. If you need a business card scanner, this application is so easy and powerful to use. The advantage of it is that you can scan anything, anywhere and anytime. It can also be used as a library book scanner or business receipt scanner and lets you scan multipage documents and save with a single tap. Microsoft Office Lens is another scanning app that lets you shoot photos of written materials like notepads, printed documents and whiteboards converting them into editable text through OCR. If you take a picture of the document then the Word will preserve the layout of your paper document and use Optical character recognition to convert the image into text. If you have taken a picture of a whiteboard, it will automatically crop and rotate images and with the PowerPoint document, it will even convert hand-drawn whiteboard images into objects that can be moved, resized, coloured and edited fully. The cropping feature on it helps by making it easier to capture important information from documents. Children and adults who have learning disabilities, writing issues or memory challenges can benefit from this application to keep track of information. It is a great way to scan physical documents and information of daily activities at home creating a digital cop[y rather than organise a lot of paper. Scan bot unlike other mobile scanning applications, puts an emphasis on tagging the images such as adding a contract or recipe to a file image. You can also use smart naming to control how files are named by default with expected time and date as well as scan designation and location It encourages you to use folders to organise documents. It also has the annotation capabilities that lets you sign a document, add a text comment or mark it with a colored pen or marker. With this it makes it easy for one to scan a contract. If you have these applications on your device it will be easy for you to work from home and be able to send documents to your employer with ease.