The Kenya Medical Association wants the state to use evidence before deciding on whether to enhance or ease movement restrictions. The association’s Covid-19 Response Advisory Committee has said this should entail doing sufficient mass testing to understand the spread of the disease in the country. On Saturday, President Uhuru Kenyatta extended the nationwide dusk-to-dawn curfew for a further 21 days up to June 6. The cessation of movement into and out of Nairobi Metropolitan area, Mombasa, Kilifi, Kwale and Mandera counties was also extended for 21 days Association president Jacqueline Kitulu said the decision to impose movement restrictions in parts of the country was not based on any health or scientific considerations. “It would have entailed proper community entry, massive testing within those areas and development of a strategy for containing the infection effectively,” Kitulu said. She noted that to date, the amount of testing in the restricted areas and the rest of the country has remained significantly below what is expected for a country of our size and means, even when compared to neighbouring countries. “As a result of this limited testing, we are operating in the dark, and we currently know neither the real extent of the pandemic in this country nor the trajectory of its spread,” she said. The association said it is difficult to understand the rationale for the discussions on easing or ending the movement restrictions as no scientific preparation was made before imposing the restrictions. Decisions to consider easing travel restrictions should be made only after widespread testing has been conducted and the number of new cases seen to be declining or zero for up to two weeks, they said. “There must be a reliable national network for contact-tracing, quarantine, and isolation that is free of coercion and encourages people to cooperate should they meet the criteria for these.” They also want the government to ensure there is adequate bed space for clinical management of cases and for frontline workers to be in sufficient numbers and prepared and motivated to handle any surge in cases should it happen. Kitulu observed that in the absence of data and without the above criteria being met, any discussions on easing of movement restrictions and reopening sectors of the economy is considered premature and potentially disastrous. The association further noted that there is delayed or absent hiring of additional health workers and shortages of supplies despite the fact that counties are supposed to be at the forefront of the Covid-19 response. “We recommend that information be provided urgently on the state of preparedness of all counties, and that steps be taken to speedily hire additional staff and procure the necessary supplies to enable the country to deal with this pandemic,” she said. Edited by R.Wamochie