Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has said prisoners are safe from coronavirus and urged Kenyans not to panic. The CS, however, confirmed that two remandees who were kept in isolation tested positive and that they had no contact with 47,000 inmates serving various jail terms in correctional facilities across the country. Matiang’i spoke on Monday during a virtual meeting with members of the Senate ad-hoc committee on Covid-19. He said the government had set aside a 500-bed isolation facility for remandees to ensure they do not mix with inmates. The government ordered prison officers who were out of the country when the first case was announced to proceed to 14 days quarantine and be tested before going back to the facilities. “We had staff who had gone to take courses in the UK and we demanded they go to 14 days quarantine and be tested before they come back to the facilities,” Matiang’i said. Last week, the government started mass testing of quarantined staff and remandees, and, according to the CS, only two tested positive for Covid-19. So far, 219 have been tested across the country, he said. A total of 124 were tested from Nairobi, Rift Valley (27), Coast (12), Nyanza (42) and Western region (8). Of the 219 tested, 48 were prison officers. “Only two remandees tested positive. We immediately moved them to isolation facilities and we also had to remove the other 42 who were with them in the same room for a second test,” the CS said. “I can confirm the entirety of all the 47,000 inmates is fine. There is no problem anywhere.” The CS further said that prisons medical staff who were on leave had been recalled for any eventuality. Matiang’i told the committee which was being chaired by vice chairperson and nominated Senator Sylvia Kasanga that jointly with the National Council on the Administration of Justice they have been working on modalities of decongesting the prisons. Since the first case was confirmed in the country on March 13, a total of 7,000 inmates have been released from the facilities. “Every week there are inmates who complete their prison terms. We also expedite the process of clearing those who have cleared their terms,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori