The Health ministry in partnership with county governments has begun enhancing capacity in prisons to combat the spread of the coronavirus. The ministry has identified prisons as one of the high-risk areas after some inmates in Industrial Area Prison tested positive. “We are concerned about the prison environment. It is one of those high-risk areas that we have identified and are watching carefully and conducting targeted testing,” Health CAS Rashid Aman said yesterday. So far, the Prisons department health facilities have been provided with personal protective equipment, sampling materials and their staff have been equally trained in sampling some of the inmates. “We are collaborating with both the Prisons Department and the county authorities to monitor and test these prisoners and then take the necessary measures to ensure there is no spread in those environments,” Aman said. As Kenya starts its third month since the confirmation of the first positive case on March 13, the number of positive cases in the country has reached 715 after 15 more cases were confirmed by the ministry yesterday. The 15 were from 978 samples tested in a day. The total number of tests conducted since the first case is 33,916. Eight more people were discharged from hospital, bringing the total number of patients who have successfully undergone treatment and recovered to 259. The new cases were aged between one and 62, comprising 10 men and five women. Seven were from Mombasa, three from Migori, two from Wajir, and one each from Nairobi, Machakos and Kiambu. Three more patients, however, succumbed to the virus, raising the total number of fatalities in the country to 36. The three were in Mombasa, two died at home and one in hospital. Some 42 inmates have been isolated for coming into contact with two positive cases. According to data by the Interior ministry, the population in the prisons has gone down from 54,000 after the government released some 7,000 remandees and petty offenders as a measure to curb the spread of the virus through decongestion. At least 219 prison staffers have been tested since the exercise began last week. The government said more Kenyans stuck in different parts of the world would be evacuated in the coming weeks. Some 700 Kenyans who were stuck in China and India were evacuated at the weekend. Foreign Affairs PS Macharia Kamau, however, advised Kenyans in the diaspora to remain where they are domiciled. “In the example of those that came from China. Even though we have over 3,000 Kenyans in China when the opportunity was presented for them to return, only 169 of them took the flight. We did not fill the aircraft,” Kamau said. “This shows you that even though people recognise that there is danger where they are, they recognise the inevitability of remaining where they are because life must go on and many of them have lives to live, livelihoods to pursue, education to complete, and so they prefer to remain where they are.” The PS noted that the decision to lift restrictions will be done based on lessons learned from other countries. “There are countries that are beginning to look at the possibilities of opening up and lessening the circumstances or the restrictions they have put in place but many of these countries are regretting doing so because they have seen spikes in the numbers of people who are infected.” He said Kenya is watching those situations carefully so it does not repeat the mistakes of other countries. The ministry further donated 300,000 pairs of protective gloves, 170,000 pairs of medical shoes, 300 pieces of overall medical gowns and 1,500 pairs of goggles to frontline health workers. In addition, private companies and firms in China donated 6,000 N95 masks, 500 pieces of isolation gowns, 3,000 pieces of surgical face masks, 500 pieces of surgical protective suits, 40 pieces of thermometers and 85,000 normal face masks.