World marathon record holder Eliud Kipchoge has revealed that he is still keen on a duel with Ethiopian multiple Olympic champion Kenenisa Bekele. The duo was set to fight it out at the 2020 London Marathon last month but the race was pushed to October due to the coronavirus pandemic. Bekele is seen as the biggest challenger to Kipchoge's 2:01:39 record after he came just two seconds short at the 2019 London Marathon despite being within the record for the better part of the race. “My race against Bekele is still own," said Kipchoge. "However, the postponement of the London Marathon from April to October was stressful." "It actually destroyed the plans I had but my top priority, which is the same for all humans at the moment, is to be safe,” said the three-time Berlin Marathon champion. The four-time London marathon winner added that the virus has brought stress to sportsmen and women across the world and hoped that would normalise soon to allow them to return to running. Speaking while distributing food to vulnerable athletes in the North Rift region where 59 athletes benefited, Kipchoge insisted that he was well prepared to defend his title in London. The pandemic has left thousands dead and this did not escape Kipchoge's attention. “I also condole with families who have lost their loved ones to the pandemic especially in China, the USA and Spain, who have been badly hit by the virus. I also condole with Kenyans who have been affected and ask them to take heart," said kipchoge. "No one knew such a thing could happen to our beautiful world.” Kipchoge said the food distribution initiative is meant to cushion runners but is not enough since more than 3,000 are suffering. “This is not enough since 80% of athletes in this country need a lot of support to put food on their tables since everything has stalled," said Kipchoge. "Majority of the events they were planning have been cancelled and we don’t know if they will happen by the end of the year. These athletes and the whole sporting fraternity earn their living through sports. They, therefore, need a lot of support and I urge corporates to join the government by donating foodstuffs.”