Scores of Embu residents have been displaced after hydroelectricity-producing Masinga Dam and two rivers burst their banks, causing massive flooding. They also suffered huge losses after their crops were swept away. The farmers at Kithechu in Makima, Mbeere South, have appealed for help after their farms, which are located near the dam's spillway, were flooded and their farms, covering a diameter of about 100 metres, submerged. In Mbuvori village, Embu North, residents also recorded massive losses. Raging floodwaters destroyed their crops after rivers Thambana and Kamwangi burst their banks. They have urged the government to come to their rescue. The farmers said they face hunger and could fail to meet their commercial and family obligations as they pegged their hopes on the crops, which had been thriving until the tragedy struck. Makima ward administrator Samson Kitonyi, who assessed the situation on behalf of the county government, said the farmers have been hit hard by the floods, a crisis they had not faced in many years. He said the floods have destroyed fruits, tomatoes and green grams, among other crops, as well as water generators. Kitonyi urged the farmers to move to safe grounds to avoid losing lives, adding that the government was looking at ways of helping them. Njagi Kanake, a victim with 10 children, said they have nowhere to sleep. His timber house was submerged. He and his son Christopher Gitonga had been tending their crops, including bananas, cabbages and beans. The future looked bright but now all that is gone. They appealed to well-wishers and relatives to help. “We can’t eat because we can’t even get anywhere to light a fire in the house. The whole homestead and the farm have been flooded. We humbly seek relief food and other financial assistance to cater for our needs and relocation to another place,” Kanake said. Richard Njue's farm, which is about 20 metres from a riverbank, was also submerged and crops destroyed. His house was flooded. Acting Embu Agriculture executive Jamleck Muturi said the county and the national government will work together to help the Mbeere South and Embu North farmers. Meanwhile, he urged well-wishers to assist with food, cash and household items. (Edited by F'Orieny)