Teachers and lecturers' unions have complained about being left out of a team to steer the reopening of schools following the coronavirus-imposed closures. The Kenya National Union of Teachers and the University Academic Staff Union said Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha had erred in excluding them from the task force. Magoha on Tuesday appointed a nine-member task force to prepare a back-to-school road map for learners. A tenth member, Kuppet secretary general Akello Misori was added Thursday. Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development chairperson Sarah Ruto chairs the task force . On Friday, Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion said their exclusion contravenes international conventions and the Constitution on public participation. "The Ministry of Education has made a habit of sidelining Knut from major task forces on education reforms, the most recent being the curriculum review task force and the coronavirus response committee," Knut said. Sossion asked Magoha to include teachers' unions in the task force before it officially begins performing its duties. The team began work Thursday by calling for submissions on how to normalise operations in schools. Ruto said written memoranda may be submitted to the secretariat by e-mail to covid19erc@kicd.ac.ke or through address 30231-00100. Individuals have until 5pm on May 22 to send proposals. In its letter, Uasu said, “It should be noted that the unions also provide means for cooperation among lecturers, views and decision upon matters affecting the interest of education and teaching profession in the country.” The committee is expected to explore ways to restore normalcy in the basic education sector’s academic calendar. Last week, Magoha said the reopening of schools depends on how the Covid-19 pandemic is managed. "Irrespective of what we are saying, the pandemic must come under control first. Everything else will have to follow. All these questions will depend on how the government will control the pandemic," he told Parliament's Education Committee. The CS had earlier extended the school closures by another month from May 4 to June 4. (edited by o. owino)