The government should put up more testing points and deploy additional health workers to test for the coronavirus on the Mombasa highway, truckers have said. The drivers complained that they wait inside their trucks for days before they are tested. On Monday, the Ministry of Health announced that it will begin targeted mass testing of truck drivers after some contracted the virus. Paul Ombote, a Kenya-Uganda-Tanzania transporter, said strict measures had been put for them to follow to curb the spread of the disease. Ombote told the Star they are not allowed to stop in Machakos county but delays in testing have forced them to wait in the trucks along the road. The drivers were directed to take tests every 48 hours. Some said it will be hard for them to comply because they will incur losses. Samuel Chitwa urged the government to deploy more health workers to conduct the coronavirus testing. “We have been waiting here for more than two days. We have experienced losses and staying here puts us in more danger of contracting the virus. I support the testing exercise but let them do it without taking so much time," Chitwa said. He said they have been forced to cook for themselves along the road since there are no open eateries around. "You cannot visit some of these hotels to eat. We are afraid of getting infected so it's safe for us to cook for ourselves," Chitwa added. They also complained of discrimination in other countries since they are not allowed to stop on the way after crossing the border from Kenya into either Uganda or Rwanda. On Monday, the Ugandan Ministry of Health announced designated stopover areas for truckers and scaled up testing capacity for cargo transporters. The director of public health Dr Francis Kuria Sunday outlined enhanced measures in the transport sector which was identified as a key risk of transmission. The government announced designated stopovers for drivers in Machakos, Miritini, South B, Kisumu, Eldoret, Nakuru, Naivasha, Kilifi, Marsabit, Kwale, Kinagop and Msabweni. The National Emergency Response Committee had directed testing of truck drivers to begin at all border crossing points. (edited by o. owino)