Residents of Munyu and Komo villages in Thika East have raised concerns over the number of drunk people falling off makeshift bridges and drowning. They said eight people have died while attempting crossing rivers Ndarugu and Komo while going to or from liquor dens in the last four months. On Tuesday, a man's body was retrieved from River Ndarugu. Residents believe he must have tried to use the two-pipe bridge over the river while drunk. Kiambu Fire Rescue team's Martin Ngugi led the mission to retrieve the body. He warned locals against crossing the rivers when they are swollen, especially using unstable bridges. Ngugi noted that since the onset of the heavy rainfall two months ago, the rescue team has retrieved 17 bodies from rivers Chania, Ndarugu and Athi in Thika and Juja subcounties. “We are worried about the trend of people risking their lives crossing swollen rivers with unstable bridges. People have lost their lives in the waters. There’s a day I retrieved five bodies at River Athi and all were unknown and their relatives might still be looking for them. People must put their safety first,” Ngugi said. Njogu Kuria, a resident, said that they improvised a bridge from two metallic pipes which are usually swept downstream whenever the rivers burst banks. “The two metal pipes are the ones the drunk use to cross the rivers. Victims who have perished here are usually too drunk and we suspect that they slip into the river while crossing,” Kuria said. The residents criticised chiefs and their assistants for allowing the brewing of the outlawed liquor to thrive under their watch. “Even after the government staged massive crackdowns on the illicit liquor dens across this region, it still has crept back. It’s not that the authorities are not aware, they know because they usually get kickbacks from the brewers,” Stephen Githua, a resident, said. Githua who has lived in Munyu village for over 50 years said that Chang’aa brewing has caused many deaths in the region. “I have witnessed retrieval of all the bodies that have drowned in the two rivers and all have been victims of chang’aa brewing. Were it not for the illegal brew those people might still be alive,” he said. Thika East deputy county commissioner Thomas Sankei told the Star that authorities are working together to end the brewing of illicit liquor. Residents said the makeshift bridges used to cross the swollen rivers might have contributed to the deaths in the area. Kuria said they want the government to construct proper bridges but the deaths will not end if chang’aa brewing is not dealt with. The deputy county commissioner said that most of the liquor is brewed on the border between Machakos and Kiambu counties. “We are aware of the situation in the area and we are working collaboratively with authorities from Machakos side and Juja subcounty to wipe out the brews from the area,” Sankei said. He dismissed allegations that the authorities have been abetting the vice in the area and that they have been benefiting from the illegality. Kiambu Governor James Nyoro toured the area and said that his administration will partner with the national government to mount a crackdown on illicit brews in the area. “We will work together with the government administration and the police and get rid of the brews once and for all,” he said. The county chief said his government will construct two bridges at Sh10 million to end the suffering of residents. County engineers and another from the Transport ministry will be on the ground to assess and design the two bridges. Construction work will begin in two weeks, he said. “In the meantime, we will erect a temporary bailey bridge in the area which is much safer as we lay plans to construct a permanent one,” Nyoro said. (edited by o. owino)