The inheritance battle for former powerful minister Mbiyu Koinange's multi-billion estate ended on Thursday after 39 years. High Court Judge Aggrey Muchelule distributed Koinange's estate among his children from four houses equally. It was a big win for the women beneficiaries as their claims had been downplayed during the court process. “This is important because various proposals by the male children appear to indicate that they are entitled to more benefit from the estate when compared to their sisters,” Muchelule said. Koinange hailed from Kiambu. He died without a will on September 3, 1981, with a rich academic and political history. He was a polygynous and wealthy man. The estate has been the subject of litigation by members of his family since his death. Muchelule said he considered where each beneficiary is settled and the developments being undertaken to minimise the disruption. He directed that a parcel along Lunga Lunga Road, 800 acres of Muthera Farm, 10 acres of Ehothia Farm and five acres of Wehothia Farm be sold and the proceeds banked into a joint account to be operated by the four administrators. Liabilities and the costs of the administration of the estate will be paid from that account as determined by the court. The balance of the proceeds shall be shared equally by all the 12 beneficiaries of the estate, he ruled. For the 4,292-acre Muthera Farm in Mau Narok, the judge directed that 800 acres be sold to cover liabilities, debts and administration costs. And 150 acres shall cover roads, police station, a school and other common amenities. The remaining 3,342 acres will be shared. Each beneficiary shall get 278.5 acres. Ehothia Farm which is 645 acres will have 10 acres sold for liabilities. Another 10 acres will go to roads and a police station. The remaining 625 acres will be shared. Of the total acreage Margaret Njeri gets 70 acres. Sixty acres each will go to David Njunu, Paul Mbatia, George Kihara, the estate of Mary Wambui as represented by Stella Njeri, the estate of Elizabeth Waruinu as represented by Stella and Stephen Kibaara. The balance of 255 shall be equally shared by the estate of Florence Wanjiku as represented by Barbara Wambui, the estate of Isaac Njunu as represented by Joyce Njeri, David Waiganjo, the estate of Solomon Kihara as represented by widow Susan Kihara, Lennah Wanjiku and Eddah Mbiyu. Each will get 42.5 acres. From Wachothia Farm (198 acres) at least five acres will be sold to pay liabilities. Another five acres shall be preserved for roads. Eddah Wanjiru who currently occupies the farm will get 20 acres. Beneficiaries David Njunu, Paul Mbatia, George Kihara, the estate of Mary Wambui as represented by Stella Njeri and the estate of Elizabeth Waruinu as represented by Stella and Stephen Kibaara shall each get 18 acres. Margaret Njeri, the estate of Florence Wanjiku as represented by Barbara Wambui, the estate of Isaac Njunu as represented by Joyce Njeri, David Waiganjo, the estate of Solomon Kihara Koinange as represented by Susan Kihara and Lennah Wanjiku Koinange will each get 13 acres. Kiambaa/Waguthu/2324 was Koinange's inheritance from his father which elders gave to Eddah Wanjiru. The Court of Appeal ruled it belonged to the estate and shared it among beneficiaries. Eddah Wanjiru will get half an acre of the parcel and the balance shall be shared equally by the other 11 beneficiaries. Kiambaa/Thimbigua/819 is 98 acres. Four acres will cover roads and public facilities and one acre will cater for burial/memorial grounds for the second house. David Njunu and the estate of Isaac Njunu as represented by Joyce Njeri Njunu will get one acre each. Paul Mbatia, George Koinange, the estate of Mary Wambui as represented by Stella Njeri, the estate of Elizabeth Waruinu as represented by Stella and Stephen Kibaara, the estate of Solomon Kihara as represented by Susan Kihara, the estate of Florence Wanjiku as represented by Barbara Wambui, David Waiganjo, Lennah Wanjiku, Margaret Njeri and Eddah Wanjiru will each get 9.1 acres. From the share of the estate of Florence Wanjiku Koinange, 44.5 acres will go to Tangulizi Ventures Limited. The family did not come up with an agreement in relation to Closeburn Estate. At the time of the former minister’s death, Closeburn Estate was 640.25 acres. However, 291 acres was sold to the Aga Khan Group, 100 acres to Centum Ltd and three acres to Karura Community Chapel Registered Trustees. It left 246 acres for distribution. Justice Muchelule directed the administrators to measure the acreage of the estate using a government surveyor because the family members are conflicted on what is left. “If the estate is found to be less than 246 acres, the beneficiaries will proportionately lose their shares. Whatever is recovered will be proportionately shared,” he said. Closeburn has substantially been occupied by the second house and by parties who have leases. David Waiganjo and Lennah Wanjiku have for long controlled substantial portions of the estate and benefitted from it. “The rest of the beneficiaries from the second house have not been as lucky. I have indicated in the foregoing that all the children of the deceased are beneficiaries of his estate and that each child has an equal claim,” the judge said. Consequently, the estate of Florence Wanjiku as represented by Barbara Wambui, the estate of Isaac Njunu as represented by Joyce Njeri, the estate of Solomon Kihara as represented by Susan Kihara, David Waiganjo and Lennah Wanjiku shall each get 30 acres. David Njunu, Paul Mbatia, George Kihara, the estate of Mary Wambui as represented by Stella Njeri, the estate of Elizabeth Waruinu as represented by Stella Kibaara, Margaret Njeri and Eddah Wanjiru Mbiyu shall each get 12 acres. Another 12 acres shall be reserved for roads and public amenities. The sharing of Closeburn Estate, the judge added, shall be done in such a way to ensure that each of the 12 beneficiaries gets at least one acre touching the Limuru Highway or tarmac road. The 32,000 shares in Koinange Investments Development Ltd, the 508 shares in Kenyattu Trading & Co Ltd, shares at Limuru Dairy Ltd, shares in ICDC shall all be sold and the proceeds shared equally. Also to be sold and distributed equally are shares in Danson Macharia Saw Mills Ltd, shares in Mbo-i-Kamiti Ltd, shares in Theta Group Ltd shares in KGGCU Ltd, shares in KPCU, shares in Koiri Ltd, any other shares, Kiambaa/Karuri/T.297, Banana Hill Plot, Gathangu plots (Kanunga Farmers Company), Kiambaa Kawainda. The judge said that the succession dispute has been one of the longest-running in the judiciary. It is always a reference point whenever a delay in the administration of justice is discussed, he said. Muchelule said most of the cases involving rich polygamous Kenyans who die intestate have always dragged. The process is frustrated by lengthy and complicated litigation with many advocates and less intention to end the matter. “One wishes that all Kenyans can get into the habit of planning their lives, and especially thinking about what will happen to their families and properties upon their death,” Justice Muchelule said. (edited by o. owino)