Machakos governor Alfred Mutua has said truckers will be required to produce documentation indicating that they have been tested for the COVID 19 before entering the county. Mutua said Machakos governor Alfred Mutua said the truck drivers along Mombasa road will now have to produce a document that shows they have been tested and are free from Coronavirus disease before being allowed to enter the county. The truck drivers along Nairobi - Mombasa road will now have to produce a document that shows that they have been tested and are free from Coronavirus disease before being allowed to enter Machakos. He said the documents will be mandatory and one of the key requirements failure to which they will not be allowed to enter Machakos county but rather returned to their counties. Mutua said that trucks and lorries will only have 30 minutes to refuel. They will not be allowed to park in the county. The governor was speaking as he hosted the Health Cs Mutahi Kagwe for the 65th COVIF 19 daily briefing and noted that as a way of protecting Machakos residents all drivers must be tested before entering the county. Mutua said those who will be found positive will be taken back to their respective counties and urged the neighbouring counties like Makueni and Kajiado to practice the same. However, Mutua also revealed that the county government had contracted all vocational training centres in manufacturing fave masks. The operation will start in one months time and see every Machakos resident receive a free face mask. "We have contracted our vocational training colleges to produce masks within the coming one or two months. So this process will make sure all Machakos residents from the children to the adults that they receive a free mask", he said. He said that will help the country in curbing the spread of coronavirus. So far the county has 3 confirmed locally transmitted cases. While addressing the press at the Machakos Level 5 hospital Mutua also revealed that the distribution of alcohol products will be allowed from Tuesday. " We had stopped temporarily the distribution of alcohol products because we noted something fishy when the bars were taking stocks daily while closed", he said. " So we wonder who were taking the drinks and we decided to have the distribution stopped. But now we have decided to relax the ban and allow the vehicles to come as from Tuesday but bars will remain closed", he added. He also said the over 200 confiscated boda bodas will be released by Tuesday and urged the operators to adhere to the government guidelines set by the national government in the containment of COVID 19. Last month, Mutua banned distribution of Alcohol in Machakos from April 22, until the end of May. Mutua was accompanied by the Machakos County Assembly Speaker Hon. Florence Mwangangi, Machakos County Commissioner, Esther Maina, Deputy Governor Francis Maliti and other members of the Cabinet.