Tana River Governor Dhadho Godhana has accused the national government of delaying to respond to issues affecting his county. He said the government is always slow when it comes to responding to issues affecting Tana River, which has led to marginalisation. The county has a history of disasters such as floods, drought and communal clashes, which affect thousands of residents. More than 48,000 residents are currently affected by floods and the situation has been described as dire by the Kenya Red Cross Society. Speaking during a visit to affected villages in Tana North and the Tana Delta in Kipini, Dhadho said flooding is a perennial problem, unlike the coronavirus, yet it has not been given the attention it deserves. "The government set aside Sh3.5 billion for allowances to medical staff, but as a county government, our approach is a holistic one," he said. The governor said his administration created a village cluster programme that cost Sh4 billion. Dhadho said it took the national government a few days to allocate Sh3.5 billion to the Covid-19 fight but it has taken them a long time to get Sh4 billion to help flood victims. "I have always complained about the national government’s slow method of operation but they do not respond faster even in emergency situations," he said. Dhadho said moving people to safe ground is not enough. Roads need to be repaired, residents resettled and given water, medicine, education and other services, he said. The governor urged the national government to provide resources to move people to safe areas and meet their basic needs. He said those affected live on plains and should be resettled instead of being given food relief alone. Under the cluster programme, areas were identified where the government can provide essential services such as water, electricity and road networks. Dhadho said they have combined four villages to make a town so as to shift people from rural to an urban lifestyle. Dhadho said they have started with Handampya, Baomo, Nyangoni, and Mlimaabu villages. Initially they will have 14 clusters but they are targeting 50. "The idea of clusters was arrived at by all stakeholders who include Kenya Red Cross, Action from Hunger, local leaders and the national government," he said. He said lives are at risk due to poor sanitation. People dump waste in the water which they also use for drinking, washing, bathing and cooking, and this exposes them to cholera and other related diseases. Edited by Frank Obonyo