The Eastleigh business hub has been a ghost town since Thursday after the government declared a lockdown on Wednesday from 7pm to curb the spread of Covid-19. Open markets, restaurants, eateries and malls will also remain closed for 15 days. Police placed roadblocks and patrolled the streets. The lockdown has spelt doom for the thriving business hub. Kamukunji MP Yusuf Hassan had stated the closure will devastate the area and the government must come up with a rescue package. He said about 200,000 people move in and out of Eastleigh daily for business. Eastleigh Business Community also termed the lockdown unfair. Unemployment Eastleigh Youth Association chairman David Odhiambo told the Star that the cessation had left youths unhappy, stranded and unemployed. He noted that the decision was hurriedly done without giving an alternative to vulnerable families. “As much we support the measure to curb the spread of Covid-19, the government could have given us a time frame to prepare for the cessation," Odhiambo said He stated that most youths within Eastleigh are employed at Garissa lodge area and the cessation has abruptly cut off their source of income. Cliff, a trader, owns a shop at the Amal Plaza where he has been selling shoes and clothes since 2012. However, for the next 15 days, he won't be able to access his stall. “Covid-19 is a pandemic and we have to fight it but everything has stalled. I had clients who were waiting for their deliveries, had goods which were also coming to the shop but with the cessation, I don’t know what next or even start to account for the loss I will make," Cliff said. Transport grounded With the cessation, public transport into and out of Eastleigh has been grounded, leaving matatu crew stranded for 15 days. Matatus terminating and starting the journey in Eastleigh include Number 4, 6, Forward travellers from Kayole and Arbab Sacco from South C estate and Mombasa Road. “Transport had already been affected with the curfew and the cessation has made things worse. There is no source of income and the youths are seated at home idle," Odhiambo said. The boda boda operators and taxi drivers have also not been spared as they lack commuters to and from the area. Concerns have also been raised the cessation might lead youths to engage in violence and theft.