Nominated MP David ole Sankok has said his support for Deputy President William Ruto was not cast in stone. Sankok pledged total loyalty to President Uhuru Kenyatta and supported the decision to clean up the Jubilee Party. The lawmaker spoke alongside nominated MP Maina Kamanda. The pair lauded Uhuru for reaching out to other parties in his efforts to deliver on his promises to the country. They addressed the media at Osim Country Lodge in Narok. "I've been supporting the DP’s ambition because he is the only Jubilee leader who had shown interest in vying for the presidency in 2022 but I want to say I will support anyone nominated by the party to vie for the top seat," said Sankok, who represents persons living with disability in the National Assembly. "Loyalty and respect for the party leader are not negotiable. If our leader calls for a meeting, we have to go without question. If I don’t agree with him, I will tell him on the face so that we can get amicable solutions rather than excuses." Sankok, who has hitherto been a close ally of the DP, promised to back any post-election agreement entered by the party, saying this will go a long way in uniting the country. "I will be the first to work with anyone who signs a post-election agreement with our party. Before, I had only one party leader, but now that Kanu has come in, I have two party leaders and two deputies whom I have a duty to respect,” he said. He told off a section of Jubilee senators who failed to honour the invitation to a party meeting called by the President. Sankok reprimanded Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and his Nakuru counterpart Susan Kihika for dishonouring their party leader by failing to attend the meeting. The two were subsequently removed from their positions as Majority leader and chief Majority chief whip respectively. Adding his voice to the issue, Kamanda said everybody working under the President should be 100 per cent loyal to him. "When you bring people who are loyal to you, you are able to deliver on our agenda to the nation. I thank all the senators from Central Kenya who attended last week's State House meeting because they believe in their President,” Kamanda said. He said the handshake between the head of state and ODM leader Raila Odinga has united the nation and Kenyans should support it.  (Edited by F'Orieny)