Players who ply their trade in the Kenyan Premier and National Super Leagues have something to smile about after gaming firm Betika dished a Sh5.3 million token to cushion them against the effects brought by coronavirus pandemic. The boost comes barely a week after the government, through the Ministry of Sports, requested for players' information from five leagues with an intention of wiring financial support for the period sporting activities remain suspended. The Sh5.3 million windfall will benefit  587 players, which translates to 30 players from each of the 17 clubs in the top flight and 19 NSL sides. Each player will pocket Sh5,000. At hand to receive the token presented at Kandanda House was Gor Mahia captain and Harambee Stars midfielder Kenneth Muguna and experienced Nairobi City Stars midfielder Anthony Kimani, on behalf of the 36 clubs. Muguna hailed Betika for their timely intervention. “Thank you Betika and FKF for this kind gesture towards us,” said the former Western Stima man Similarly, Kimani on the other hand, was full of praise for the NSL official sponsors for the financial boost, which he noted would assist them to navigate the current tough economic times. “We feel appreciated. Never before has football been suspended to this extent and this token, though not enough, will go a long way in cushioning us against the economic effects of the global pandemic,” said the former Harambee Stars' midfielder. While presenting the cheque to FKF President Nick Mwendwa and the two captains, Betika head of commercial John Mbatia reiterated their commitment in supporting Kenyan football. “Football has been largely affected by this pandemic and it is for this reason that we opted to partner with FKF in supporting our players,” he said. Meanwhile, Mwendwa thanked the firm for coming through for the players and called on other partners to consider extending support to players from lower-tier leagues, who have also been affected by the pandemic. "I want to thank Betika for this kind gesture towards KPL and NSL clubs. As a federation, we remain committed to exploring measures that cushion our players, right from the grassroots to the top tier leagues, during this time when football has been largely affected," he said.