Is Police IG Hillary Mutyambai (pictured) aware of some crooks impersonating his officers especially in Nairobi’s informal settlements? The men have taken advantage of the ongoing crackdown on people not wearing face masks to ‘arrest’ and extort unsuspecting Kenyans. The heavily built men are impersonating plainclothes police officers who are patrolling streets to enforce the wearing of masks and social distancing. Shockingly, they are handcuffing those they arrest. They are demanding Sh500 to Sh1,000 to release the ‘suspects.’ Maybe it is high time the IG directs his boys to always wear uniforms to eradicate the extortion and harassment in most parts of the city A MP from the Coast has come under sharp criticism for assailing a governor’s tough measures to contain the spread of the coronavirus. The legislator, who has been at loggerheads with the county chief since he was elected, had taken on the governor for ‘forcing’ residents to come out for testing. But moments later, he got  a barrage of criticism from his constituents, including his close allies, for opposing the governor’s measures to save lives. His social media page was abuzz with tongue-lashing, with some openly telling him he had gone overboard with his ‘hatred’ for the county chief. A speaker of a county assembly dominated by Jubilee MCAs has literally blacklisted his governor elected on the same party ticket. Insiders disclose the two have bitterly clashed and no longer see eye to eye. Recently, the speaker refused to receive crucial proposed legislation from the executive and ordered the county assembly clerk and his handlers to lock their offices. Moments later, he blocked the governor and his close associates’ phone numbers. Those in the know intimate the two leaders clashed after a deal went sour. The governor is now trying to use some MCAs to reach out to the speaker. A governor from Western region could soon face the wrath of his MCAs. Reason? The ward reps are disturbed by a report showing the county has one of the weakest health systems in the country. The report listed the county as one of those that may not be able to handle Covid-19 should the disease hit the area. The MCAs are shocked by the revelations, given that they have been allocating the health sector billions in the budget. In the current financial year, the sector received over Sh2 billion, with a  huge chunk going towards the refurbishment of hospitals, purchase of medicines and other supplies. They are planning to summon the governor to explain how the billions have been used over the years.