The forces behind the upheavals in the Jubilee Party are not being sincere. Members have been asking for a parliamentary group meeting for three years. You call one PG, hurriedly, and people fail to attend, and you want to discipline them just because you want to use illegal steps to remove Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen and Majority whip Susan Kihika. Which one is a bigger crime? Not convening a meeting for three years, or calling one with mischief? If I were those Senators, I would not heed the summonses by the party because even the Political Parties Tribunal has declared that the meeting was not conducted in a proper manner because it was not approved by the National Executive committee (NEC) and that the coalition agreement with Kanu was null and void. It looks like there was no meeting. From where I sit, I never believed that the Jubilee government would take us back to the days when political parties were personal property and were about one person. That we should resist. Any sober-minded person in Jubilee, and anyone who wants to uphold democracy, should resist that kind of move. Murkomen and Susan were not removed because they failed to perform their duties. Not a single government Bill or agenda has failed in both the National Assembly and Senate. The lawmakers were removed because of 2022 politics; they were removed because they are friends of Deputy President William Ruto. That is cannot be the basis for removal. It is very very sad that we are in this situation. The extension of the Covid19 containment measures for another 21 days was not necessary. It is just a ploy for them (Uhuru Kenyatta) to continue doing their monkey games while not thinking about the issues affecting Kenyans following the pandemic. We are actually fighting two coronaviruses – the actual disease, and the one that has infected the Jubilee government. Because they are not following the law, they will continue breaking the law and intimidating people. It is very sad that in the 21 Century, whereby we have brought in women leaders and a robust Constitution on women representation that we are intimidating our mothers – a few days after Mothers' Day, who have a lot of responsibility and have sacrificed to be in leadership. They have children to feed and are now being intimidated because they refused to attend an illegal meeting. The question we are asking is how strong is this one man - William Ruto - that the entire government has stopped working just to fight one person? What do they fear? The Soy MP and Jubilee Party deputy SG spoke to the Star