 The national government has started distributing 9,000 free face masks to low income earners and needy residents of Garissa town. County commissioner Meru Mwangi said on Thursday that the government is committed to protecting Kenyans. He spoke when he issued 400 masks to boda boda riders operating within Garissa town. Mwangi said the boda boda sector is important and that is why the government is concerned about the safety of riders and their passengers. He urged the riders to adhere to government guidelines and carry one pillion passenger at a time. The county commissioner stressed the need for riders and their passengers to wear masks at all times and not when they spot police officers or approach roadblocks. “There are those who hurriedly put on masks when they spot police officers or when approaching the Tana Bridge police barrier. You wear a mask for your own safety, not to evade police arrest,” Mwangi said. “This disease is real and it is killing thousands of people worldwide. It’s with us, and we should be vigilant to avoid contracting the virus.” Flood victims camping at young Muslim in Garissa town were also given masks. Mwangi said each of the six subcounties of Ijara, Hulugho, Fafi, Dadaab, Lagdera and Balambala will receive 1,000 masks. The administrator urged Garissa residents to follow guidelines outlined by the Ministry of Health, including washing their hands with soap and social distancing to avoid contracting coronavirus. He said although no cases have been reported in Garissa county, residents should remain alert because the neighbouring county of Wajir has reported several cases. Garissa Town Boda Boda Riders Association chairman Maxwell Onyango thanked the government for recognising the important role the riders play in the transport sector and the risks they face. Onyango said the directive that riders provide masks to their customers is unrealistic and the government should insist that all Kenyans must carry their own masks. “If you issue each customer with a mask which costs Sh50 and you charge him or her Sh50, then it’s as if you are giving them free rides,” Onyango said. He said the 400 masks they received were not enough given that there are over 3,000 boda boda riders in Garissa town alone. Riders also received sanitiser. Edited by A.N 