A Senate team is investigating claims of misuse of over Sh38 million in Narok county. This is after two residents petitioned the House alleging loss of taxpayers’ money through various projects. Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka directed the Finance and Budget Committee to scrutinise the petition. Petitioners Simon Kilonga and Olenana Oleltulet claim that the county government allegedly lost millions of shillings allocated to projects that were never undertaken between 2014-15 and 2018-19. “Pursuant to Standing Order 232 (1), the petition stands committed to the Standing Committee on Finance and Budget. The committee is required, in not more than 60 calendar days, from the time of reading the prayer, to respond to the petitioners by way of a report addressed to the petitioners and laid on the Table of the Senate,” Lusaka said. The petitioners want the House to probe claims that the county awarded a contract worth Sh19.92 million to a construction company for the improvement and gravelling of Paka Nyeusi-Mashangwa Road section but no work was done. “The project was to commence on March 23, 2015, and be completed on July 23, 2019, but to date, no work has been done,” reads a petitioned relayed to the floor by Speaker Lusaka on Tuesday. They said in the petition that another contract worth Sh18.98 million was awarded to a different company on the same date to improve the same road, but no work has been done. “This means that the Paka Nyeusi-Mashangwa Road project had two tenders awarded in the same year, but nothing has been done on the road,” they said. The petitioners further claim that the county government awarded a contract worth Sh2.69 million for the construction of water pans. They allege the work was never done, but the payments were made. The county government awarded another tender worth Sh3.49 million for renovation and partitioning of a boardroom. The project was never carried out, the petitioners claim,  yet payment was made. Kilonga and Oleltulet want the Senate to investigate the tenders and order the Office of the Auditor-General to audit the expenditure of the county finances. The revelations sparked furious reactions from senators who demanded a thorough probe into the allegations. Senators Mithika Linturi (Meru), Njeru Ndiwga (Embu), Fatuma Dullo (Isiolo), Cleophas Malala (Kakamega), Agnes Zani (nominated) and Mutula Kilonzo Jr (Makueni) all reacted to the allegations. Linturi called on the house to be watchful, saying plunder of public resources could be going on in the counties during this period when there is no Auditor General in office. “I want to say that if we are not careful as a House, money will be stolen during this time and used in the wrong way,” he said. Ndwiga asked the committee to diligently prosecute the petition. 