The Water ministry has defended its move to repossess its land in Kariobangi North, saying it will set up a modern wastewater recycling plant on the parcel. The ministry, in a statement, on Thursday said the land is public and was not set aside for allocation. About 5,000 people were left homeless after their structures at the site were demolished. "The Kariobangi treatment plant was initially designed to treat 32,000 cubic metres of wastewater daily," it said. "This capacity has significantly declined to 11,000 cubic metres per day, with illegal and unlawful occupation being the single-most contributory factor." The ministry said almost half of the 75 acres initially earmarked for the facility had been occupied by squatters and private developers, hence rendering maintenance activities difficult. It said the untreated sewage spill down into river channels, thus exposing the public to great health hazards and risks. But even as the blame game goes on, the ministry said the reinstatement and repair of the existing boundary fence around the facility were on course. This will pave the way for the full implementation of the sewerage improvement project outlined in the Nairobi Integrated Urban Development Master Plan. On April 22, Lands officials repossessed some 1,600 acres in Ruai associated with a senior government official. The government said land fraud in the city has left little or no land for expansion of sanitation facilities despite its rising population. It has already acquired a loan of Sh20 billion from ADB and AFD to implement sewerage projects within the city. The Nairobi Integrated Urban Development Master Plan proposes, among other interventions, the rehabilitation of the wastewater infrastructure with a view to transforming the Nairobi Metropolitan region into a modern and globally competitive hub. The Water ministry said the sludge drying beds in Kariobangi, the trickling filters, as well as the bypass which was designed to convey wastewater overflow to Ruai Sewerage Treatment Plant have also grabbed. With rehabilitation works at the Kariobangi Sewerage Treatment Plant almost complete, the repossession of the illegally occupied land will make room for testing and commissioning services. “This will go a long way in improving collection, conveyance, as well as treatment of sewerage to include faecal sludge management so that it meets the recommended effluent standards.” The ministry said water from the facility will be used in the paper and leather industries in Baba Dogo and ultimately release the available potable water sources in the City for domestic use. The demolition of structures, however, caused an uproar from local leadership. Kariobangi North MCA Julius Maina said the demolition had been extended to parts of Korogocho market. “As the ward rep, there isn’t much I can do. What hurts the most is that the government ignored court orders and decided that the people who elected it should stay in the cold," Maina said. 