Senators were on Thursday up in arms against the Ministry of Health and the Public Service Commission for hiring of health personnel on behalf of counties. The lawmakers accused the national government of meddling with health issues despite health being a devolved function. The uproar came barely a month after the PSC advertised 6,003 health personnel vacancies in the ministry under the universal health coverage programme and in several other counties. The 195 vacancies were for various cadres, ranging from among others registered nurses to radiographers. There were 790 slots for the Nairobi Metropolitan Services, Baringo, Kirinyaga, Kitui, Lamu and Mombasa counties. Some 5,089 vacancies were also advertised for ‘other counties.’ On Thursday, the senators questioned the rationale behind the continued hiring of health workers for the counties. Nominated Senator Petronilla Were sought a statement and demanded to know the reason for the government to recruit medics for the devolved units. “The committee should explain the rationale and circumstance behind the decision by the PSC and the MoH to recruit health workers on behalf of county governments,” Were said. She sought to be told what measures had been put in place to mitigate the risks of conflict of interest and the fragmented chain of command resulting from the national recruitment of health workers domiciled at the county level. “The committee should provide the rationale behind the differentiation of the 719 vacancies advertised for Nairobi Metropolitan Services, Baringo, Kirinyaga, Kitui, Lamu and Mombasa counties versus the 5,089 advertised in other counties,” she said. The legislators also wanted to know the details of the contracts and conditions under the new recruitment. The Speaker directed the Labour committee to invite Health CS Mutahi Kagwe and PSC chairman Stephen Kirogo to explain the recruitment. Health is one of the devolved functions under Schedule Four of the Constitution. As such, the hiring of the medics is deemed to be the work of county public service boards. Late last month, the ministry and the PSC beat a hasty retreat and allowed the boards to hire the medics after the governors protested the move. In a letter to the Council of Governors, PSC secretary Simon Rotich said counties with properly constituted boards will be allowed to recruit the workers. “In the meantime, the list of applicants for the fully constituted boards will be forwarded to the respective county public service boards and copied to you,” his letter stated. But the senators were concerned that barely two weeks after the Rotich letter, the commission advertised positions for more counties. On Thursday, the Star sought Kirogo's response on the matter but he neither answered calls nor a text message. Senate Labour committee chair Johnson Sakaja said that while it was illegal for PSC and the ministry to hire health workers for counties, they were doing so for counties without CPSBs or those in dire need of the medics in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Sakaja is the Nairobi senator. - mwaniki FM