The demolition of houses in Utange that left more than 2,000 families homeless on Saturday has irked Mombasa leaders who are now questioning the government’s commitment to fighting Covid-19. A contingent of over 20 police officers watched as hired youth demolished more than 100 non-permanent houses at Seven Star in Utange, Kisauni subcounty. On Saturday, the Umoja Summit Party of Kenya joined civil societies in calling on President Uhuru Kenyatta to issue an executive order stopping all evictions until the coronavirus pandemic is controlled. USPK national chairperson Matano Chengo said it is inhumane and despicable to render thousands of Kenyans homeless during the pandemic. “It is shameful. How can any human being demolish houses of poor people during such a time?” Chengo asked. He faulted Coast leaders for their silence as thousands of Coast residents continue to suffer at the hands of state actors. “Where are Coast leaders? Are they waiting for 2022 to start pretending they are fighting for the people?” he asked. “People are dying of floods, coronavirus and hunger but still the government is not sensitive to this and okays demolitions, even against court orders in most cases.” His sentiments follow those of Haki Yetu and Amnesty International who have also called on the government to halt all demolitions across the country. Haki Yetu land and housing programme officer Furaha Charo said more than 10,000 families in Nairobi and Mombasa have been displaced with state security help since the Covid-19 outbreak. The Coast Land Non-State Actors, a coalition of over 10 lobby groups, said this goes against all human rights laws. Haki Yetu executive director Gabriel Dolan on Sunday said there are senior government officers at the national level who may have interests in the Utange land. He faulted Cabinet secretaries Mutahi Kagwe (Health) and Fred Matiang’i (Interior) for insisting that people stay at home then going ahead and demolishing their houses. He asked them to address the eviction issue in their daily Covid-19 briefings and not overload residents with the number of new infections, which he said only serves to spread fear among them. “For a change, there are more issues to address then the Covid-19. This pandemic has brought more issues than the disease only,” Dolan said. Dolan and Chengo said the government has failed to protect its citizens from both hunger and job insecurity. “We are only now realising that it is true what Orengo said - that governments eat their own people,” Chengo said. He warned that should push come to shove, the people will revolt against the government. Muslims for Human Rights rapid response officer Francis Auma said the prolonged curfew, the cessation of movement and restrictions imposed by the government are frustrating Kenyans and the elastic limit is almost reaching. “We have seen cases of insecurity in Mtopanga and Mshomoroni. These are effects of the frustrations youth go through,” Auma said. He warned that there may be more of insecurity cases if the government continues to displace more youth homeless through evictions and demolition of houses. “Already, people are frustrated because they have lost their jobs, they have no money and no food to eat. Demolishing their houses will push them over the edge,” Auma said. He said food distribution by the county government has not been fast enough leading to even further frustrations. Edited by R.Wamochie