Kenya has recorded 25 new coronavirus cases, raising the total number to 490. There have been six more discharges, raising to total to 163. Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi on Monday said 15 of the new cases are from Nairobi, while 10 are from Mombasa. Of the new cases, eight are from Eastleigh, two from Kawangware, 1 from Kariobangi South and two from Umoja. "All the 25 are Kenyans and none has a history of travel," she said adding that a total of 1,012 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. The youngest new case is six months, while the oldest is 60 years. Thirteen are male, while 12 are female. "We are working with different health experts when handling Covid-19 cases. For children who are positive we we are collaborating with pediatricians," she said. Mwangangi said the situation has not gone back to normal and told Kenyans to be responsible. In terms of allowances for health workers, the CAS said, "There are no favourites." "Teams are looking to ensure all health cadres are able to get their allowances. There is no favouritism hence all will be facilitated with welfare packages," she said. This comes as Kenya National Union of Nurses issued a 14-day strike notice over what they described as unfairness in distribution of allowances. She further applauded those who are doing research on finding a cure or vaccine for the pandemic. "We have heard of different cures even from Africa. However evaluation of such drugs must be under strict protocols and guidelines," she said. “While we encourage our people to continue researching on this matter it is important that this research be directed through the National Commission for Science Technology and Innovation…”. Doctor Patrick Amoth asked Parents to ensure that there children observe government directives. "Ensure children observe preventive measures and limit their interactions. Today we have a six month old baby who has tested positive. Children are also spreaders. Face masks for children are available in the market," he said.