Lamu residents have asked the Independent Policing Oversight Authority to probe police brutality during curfew enforcement. Scores of residents of Lamu town, Kizingitini, Matondoni and Shanga-Ishakani allege police have beat them up, inflicting serious injuries. Some have reported that police pursued them into their homes and beat them up for allegedly breaching the curfew. But Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia said he wasn’t aware of any incidents of police harassment and brutality. No reports had reached his desk, Macharia said. “Let’s all respect the law. If we all do the right thing and a police officer harasses you in any way, rush to my office and report,” he said. Mohamed Shukri of Kizingitini said he suffered injuries on his head, chest and limbs after he was beaten by police. Shukri said the officers found him sleeping on his verandah to escape the heat inside the house. “It’s so hot in Lamu right now and for those of us who don’t have fans, we normally just drop a mat and sleep on our verandah,” he said. Mohamed Alwy said he was also beaten by police officers enforcing the curfew in Lamu town. His head and limbs were injured. On April 10, Mustafa Ahmed had his hand broken by police officers in Shanga-Ishakani village in Lamu East. On April 6, Mohamed Omar was left nursing broken ribs and chest pains after police raided his house and beat him up with clubs. Residents are angry at the excessive force the police are using to enforce the curfew. Activist Ali Habib urged Ipoa to treat the matter seriously and ensure those affected get justice. He said those breaking the law should be arrested and charged instead of being whipped like animals. “In Lamu, the police are always waiting for that small opportunity to mistreat people and it's unfair and unwarranted. “They are mandated to protect but they are doing exactly the opposite. We need Ipoa to step in and hold them accountable,” Habib said. Community leader Sharifa Musa said the coronavirus war cannot be won by the use of force but by treating each other humanely. She said full compliance with all precautions to keep Covid-19 at bay can be achieved peacefully. “We have seen how police are brutally dealing with people across the country for flouting Covid-19 precautions. It’s wrong for the police to get comfortable doing that. Ipoa should remind them of their role,” she said. Macharia said if an errant officer is reported to his office, he will ensure they are removed from the service. (edited by o. owino)