Kenya is still in danger and as such, citizens must protect themselves, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has warned. Addressing the nation on Tuesday, Kagwe said Kenyans will hurt themselves by going back to their normal work schedules. "Please, don't go back to work. Continue working from home. Nowadays, traffic is here which means people are back at work," he said. "We will hurt ourselves. Before this week ends, the President will give out new measures on what to do next." Google’s latest weekly Covid-19 Community Mobility Report released on Monday revealed more Kenyans are slowly going back to their places of work, with an increase of 16 per cent in Nairobi in the last week. Google's Head of Communications and Public Affairs, Africa Dorothy Ooko said this has seen reduced movement in residential areas to 20 per cent from 25 per cent. In Mombasa, there was a 10 per cent increase in people within work spaces and a two per cent reduction in people moving within residential areas. Kisumu has recorded an increase of 14 per cent of those going to work and a three per cent reduction of movement in residential spaces in the past week. STIGMATISATION Kagwe further urged Kenyans to stop discriminating against those who have recovered from the coronavirus disease. "A lady who is a member of a church choir wanted to sing and although she had turned negative.. people in the choir were suspicious of her," Kagwe said. "...that idea that somebody is a bad person is not a good thing and we should not look at it that way." Kagwe said anybody can get the disease, adding that people should exercise understanding "... anybody can get it. We should have is a lot of understanding and sympathy so that we don't discriminate people. Whoever heeds discipline shows the way to life," he said. Stigmatisation is happening to people who have either gotten into contact with a person who tested positive or to people who have recovered from coronavirus. "We are asked to be understanding and have sympathy to these persons as it could very well be you in those shoes," he said. A total of 45 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, the highest since the first cases was recorded. This has shot the cases to 535.