Some 83,000 to 190,000 people in Africa could die of Covid-19 in the first year of the contagion if containment measures fail, the WHO has said in a report. A study by the World Health Organisation Regional Office for Africa says another 29 million to 44 million could get infected. So far, Africa has reported 57,844 cases. Kenya had 621 cases by Friday — 355 in Nairobi, 205 in Mombasa and the rest spread across 17 counties. Neighbouring countries Uganda and Tanzania have reported 114 and 509 cases respectively. The research, which is based on prediction modelling, looked at 47 countries in Africa. The continent has a population of more than 1.2 billion. The report predicts a slower rate of transmission, lower age of people with severe disease and lower mortality rates than what is seen in the most affected countries in the rest of the world. “This is largely driven by social and environmental factors slowing the transmission, and a younger population that has benefitted from the control of communicable diseases such as HIV and tuberculosis to reduce possible vulnerabilities," it says. "The lower rate of transmission, however, suggests a more prolonged outbreak over a few years. Smaller African countries alongside Algeria, South Africa and Cameroon were at high risk if containment measures are not prioritised." It adds that while Covid-19 will not "likely spread as exponentially in Africa as it has elsewhere in the world, it likely will smoulder in transmission hotspots". "Covid-19 could become a fixture in our lives for the next several years unless a proactive approach is taken by many governments in the region. We need to test, trace, isolate and treat,” said Dr Matshidiso Moeti, the WHO Regional Director for Africa. Moeti announced these new projections during the WHO Africa Media Leader virtual press conference with the support of the World Economic Forum. The study further showed that containment measures, which include contact tracing, isolation, improved personal hygiene practices and physical distancing aim to slow down the transmission of the virus, so its effects happen at a rate manageable by the health system. Physical distancing is not about the confinement of people but rather avoiding unnecessary contacts as people live, work and socialise as a means to interrupt transmission. "The predicted number of cases that would require hospitalisation would overwhelm the available medical capacity in much of Africa. There would be an estimated 3.6 million–5.5 million Covid-19 hospitalisations, of which 82,000–167,000 would be severe cases requiring oxygen, and 52,000–107,000 would be critical cases requiring breathing support. Such a huge number of patients in hospitals would severely strain the health capacities of countries,” the report reads. It indicated that a survey of health services in the African region undertaken in March 2020 based on self-reports by 47 countries to WHO revealed that there were on average nine intensive care unit beds per one million people. In addition, the physical access to these services to the general population is very low, suggesting many people would not even have the chance to get to the needed care. Diseases that could be managed could easily become more complicated as a result. “The importance of promoting effective containment measures is ever more crucial, as the sustained and widespread transmission of the virus could severely overwhelm our health systems.  Curbing a largescale outbreak is far costlier than the ongoing preventive measures governments are undertaking to contain the spread of the virus,” Moeti said. The study recommends that countries across Africa need to expand their capacity, particularly of primary hospitals, and ensure basic emergency care is included in primary health systems.  (Edited by F'Orieny)