A man who died on Saturday shortly after refusing to board a Covid-19 ambulance in Mombasa was on the run, the state has said. Mombasa county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo on Monday told the Star house agent Kayumba Rajab, 51, had been evading authorities for fear of being taken to a quarantine facility. “That's the second person in four days to die while on the run and in denial,” Kitiyo said on the phone. This comes after one of five people from Old Town who fled after testing positive for Covid-19 was found dead in a house. Last Thursday, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho announced that five people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Old Town evaded quarantine and fled with their families to an unidentified location. The five, whose results turned positive after the mass testing exercise in the area, became a subject of a police probe. However, Coast regional coordinator John Elungata on Friday announced that three of the five escapees had been arrested and one had died. He said one, who was from Mlango wa Papa in Old Town, is still missing. “All three were found within Mombasa. The fifth person is yet to be found but we are closing in on him,” Elungata said. On Monday, Kitiyo pleaded with Mombasa residents to cooperate with public health officials to defeat the coronavirus. On Sunday, the county commissioner said Kayumba’s life might have been saved had he cooperated with public health officers. He was responding to complaints by Nyali subcounty residents about the slow response of the emergency response team in a WhatsApp group. Residents had faulted the public health officials for arriving almost eight hours after being called and then leaving the victim after he refused to board the ambulance. Alwy Badawy, an architect and one of the most active members of the WhatsApp group, said the government has instilled fear of the disease and now victims do not want to be associated with it to avoid being stigmatised. “We have been threatened by the government and the disease. We are now so fearful,” complained Badawy. He said most of the actions by the county government are public relations exercises. Resident Yasir Noor said the slow response by the public health team cost a life. “Healthcare workers were in no rush to save a life since yesterday! What a shame!” wrote Noor. “This has to go down, to me, as the second saddest day in my life!!” Badawy said the county government has opened up so many Covid-19 hospitals but all appear to be just for the cameras. “How many Covid-19 hospitals has Mombasa county made? What for? Just for show and to attract aid and loans. Allah will judge,” Badawy said. However, Kitiyo defended the county government saying they should not be blamed. “Be fair to the government. The man refused to be helped despite medics appearing at his doorstep. We need to advise our people to accept medical intervention,” the county commissioner said. Wycliffe Abuga supported Kitiyo, saying Kayumba should have boarded the ambulance. However, Badawy said the government should have taken all necessary steps, including force, to ensure the victim boarded the ambulance. Abuga also noted that the county emergency response team needs proper training on how to handle such situations. Kitiyo said wananchi should cooperate with public health officers and listen to advice. “If it's the cost at quarantine, the government will take care of that. Testing is free. In other areas, people are queuing up to be tested. Why not this area. A lot of negative messages are going out." Edited by A.N