A vigilante gang in Mombasa is growing more violent in enforcing the dusk-to-dawn curfew, raising questions on the effectiveness of police patrols and CCTV cameras. Once a shadowy vigilante group operating in secrecy, the squad has mutated into a structured administration; operating as an alternative government and spreading terror. Locally known as Sungusungu, a Swahili word for a large black ant or poison-tipped arrows, the gang is made up of civilians aged 18-50. They prowl residential areas by 6pm in packs and are now seemingly emboldened enough to also patrol streets in the city centre that were previously considered safe. Once they zero in on a victim, the gang of at least 15 people who walk in smaller groups surrounds him or her, leaving no room for escape. They then flog the victim with sticks, pipes or or rain blows and kicks before splitting into smaller groups and fleeing. Sometimes, they leave the victims dead. Mombasa police commander Augustine Nthumbi in a phone interview with the Star denied any existence of a gang. "I have not heard of them," he said. "Police officers are solely supposed to enforce law and order, not gangs. It is illegal." UNPAID VOLUNTEERS After a series of interviews with some of the gang members, residents and human rights activists, the Star established that the vigilante comprises unpaid volunteers whose main aim is to help enforce the law. Any community member aged 18 to 50 can join voluntarily. "The group is largely comprised of unemployed and less educated youth. Mine was a calling to protect the community," one member confessed. "We discipline anyone in the wrong side of the law," another member said. Tudor, Maweni and Vikwatani residents accused the local administration of colluding with vigilante groups to whip residents in the name of enforcing the curfew. Brian Juju, a resident of Tudor, said the chief had been walking with the gang to rough up anyone found outside their home. “They beat up people, even those who were on their doorsteps. They were using sticks and pipes to beat people,” Juju said. For Naomi Adet, a resident of Mamlai, April 28 remains a day she will never forget. Hers is a sorrowful story of how she lost her son to an alleged brutal attack by the Sungusungu. The mother of three sent her son Ibraham Omar, 19, to deliver food to his grandmother who lived a block away at around 6pm. "We had been fasting so I sent my son to deliver food to the grandmother on a Sunday," she recounts. At around 7.20pm the same day, she heard someone at the door."When I opened it, I was shocked beyond words. The son that was full of life when I sent him to his grandmother was crawling on the floor and writhing in pain. He couldn't even stand or walk," Adet recounted. They say nothing is like a mother's love. This saying never rang truer than with Adet who picked up her son without asking questions, cleaned him up and performed first aid. "I could not take him to hospital for I lacked means of transport and it was already past curfew hours. I quickly prepared some concoction to ease the pain and luckily he could talk," she recounts. The son narrated how he was chased by three men who are members of the Sungusungu group. They beat him up before he managed to escape only for the gang to follow him. "They followed him until he fell into a ditch and that's when they deserted him. After gaining consciousness he crawled home," the mother said. On Monday, Ibraham complained of excruciating abdominal pain and in the limbs. His mother took him to hospital where he was given painkillers and sent home. "On Tuesday, Ibrahim passed away at home. It is very sad. He was a promising son who was already enrolled in a wiring course. We looked up to him to help us out of poverty," Adet said. His father Benjamin Mutinda, 56, reported the attack to Makindani police station. CALLS FOR JUSTICE Muslims for Human Rights rapid response officer Francis Auma said they will take up the case and push for an inquest to know what exactly killed Omar. "We [Muhuri] will stand-in for the family and request an inquest. We are also compiling our investigation then we move to court to secure a court order," Auma said. He said they also want the area chief probed to establish why she gave out a burial permit in a controversial death. "When someone dies in the house. The chief should not take it lightly and facilitate burial without a postmortem." Auma said they have been receiving reports of assaults and deaths caused by the group. "How do civilians take the initiative to enforce the law on residents? That is uncouth and should not be condoned. They should not be given such privileges," he said. Auma said Muhuri has received numerous complaints of assault and death caused by the gang. "The Sungusungu cracked the skull of one Moroto resident last week on Friday. There was also a similar case in Majengo. This has to stop." Tudor MCA Tobias Samba cautioned local administrators said to be colluding with Sungusungu that their days were numbered. “The gang should stay indoors like the rest of us. They are not the police,” the MCA said. Edited by R.Wamochie