The Hindu Council of Kenya has taken a shift in terms of reaching out to the neglected less vulnerable societies in the country while trying to alleviate challenges the covid19 pandemic has brought. To make ends meet for the forgotten groups, they have taken upon themselves in aiding widows, orphans, the critically sick, evicted families, single mothers and the cancer patients. Daily, the council receives different groups reaching out to them through their caretakers requesting for aid. The council in return reaches out to them and ensures they put a smile to their faces by donating different various items. The Hindu Council which is a non-governmental body is an umbrella unit of over 150 Hindu institutions, temples, and communities across Kenya. Have its environs in Kisumu, Eldoret, Nakuru, Mombasa and Mt. Kenya. The criteria used involves prioritising the needs placed to them as they tend to receive over a hundred requests every week Their main area of concern is that the aids provided do reach the targeted groups. Speaking at one of the foods drive on Saturday to the Star, the council's secretary-general Rekha Kochhar talked about the need of prioritising such groups of people at this period of the pandemic. "We receive so many requests every day and reaches out to each one of them. It is our humble appeal to the caregivers to ensure that the food reaches those in dire need of help." Among the beneficiaries of the donation was the Director of Immigration Alexander Muteshi who was accorded with 4000 facemasks, liquid soap - 150, 50 bottles of hand sanitizer and also a water tank to aid in the fight against Covid-19. Muteshi appreciated the council for the donation. "The support will go a long way in ensuring the officers at the borders are well protected as they serve those people exiting and entertaining the country,” Muteshi said. The Hindu Council National Chairperson Kamal Gupta appealed to other donors to come on board and reach the needy in the society at this time. Kamal lauded the Hindu Council members and institution for coming in and rising to the occasion stating that it is such a great example to the rest.