Most of the people are tired of the same environment and the same routine over and over again during the partial lockdown as a result of the coronavirus pandemic. We have no alternative but to adhere to the government's directives of social distance and staying at home. Rona (as most of us refer to the virus) has changed our daily schedules and now we have rearranged our routine and it's all for our own good. It's clearly our new normal but our lives doe not have to be boring. The internet has now become heaven-sent and you can access anything, anywhere and everywhere as long as you have a working smartphone or a laptop. So how exactly has the internet been of help during this time? 1. Exercise Staying indoors and in one combined area has made most of us very lazy. Staying indoors can really be distractive, hence finding yourself eating more than you are used to. Try and look for some exercises so as to keep fit. By the time all this is over, you should come out a fit person. Use social media and different websites to get working exercises while at the comfort of your home. 2. Trying different recipes Yes...we are locked in our homes and one can get tired of cooking the same meals over and over again. Try and look for different recipes you can try out. Challenge yourself to make something you've never tried before. You'll be surprised. There are so many websites that can help you learn a few cooking tricks. 3. What are your hobbies? At this point you have watched all movies and series you've always ignored. You don't have to get bored after all that. Look for things that you are interested in. It might be gardening, cleaning, DIY's you name it. The internet is free and there are so many tutorials and suggestions one can utilise. Take advantage of that. 4. Creative trends No one said that staying at home should be boring. There are so many interesting challenges you can try out. For example, everyone has been into Tootsie Slide Challenge, Don't Rush Challenge among other trends. They are quite interesting and they also help you get in contact with other people who are in the same situation position as you and with the same interests. 5. Nourish your spiritual life Why are we forgetting God??? Always remember that without God we are nothing and always remember to dedicate your job, your plans and anything you are working on to God. He guides us everyday so when you feel stuck, chant a prayer and see what God can do in your life. Get to see various sermons from preachers online and enrol in bible study sessions. 6. Search for the latest movies and videos Movies are now the order of the day. There are so many series and movies one can watch during the partial lockdown. Use the internet to search for websites that have the latest movies and/or suggestions. Also, can we listen to some dope music? Whichever genre you are into you are free to choose your preference. Don't limit yourself. 7. Video calls You miss your family and friends and wish you can be around them, but we have to stay away from each other until life returns to normal. But you don't have to wait until the pandemic is over for you to see your family and friends. There are so many ways you can chat with them and the best is doing video calls. Try using apps like Zoom, Google Meet, WhatsApp, FaceTime or any other video calling app. Make use of these apps to chat with your close ones, catch up with them and see how they are doing.