Nyeri had by Friday tested only 21 people for coronavirus out of a population of about 800,000. Only those who exhibited signs similar to Covid-19 were tested and all were found negative. But Governor Mutahi Kahiga cautioned residents against dropping their guard since the county has reported no case  He said 21 tests were negligible and only mass testing could give the true picture. “Let us stop throwing caution to the wind. I want to urge my people to take this matter seriously,” Kahiga said. He said the county had screened to over 180,000 people traveling to Nyeri in two weeks. They were screened in all the six entry points to the county. The county chief criticised some people for ignoring precautionary measures by going in public without masks and not observing socials distancing. “The possibility of people infecting each other is very high if the precautions are not observed especially given that some people with the virus are asymptomatic,” he said. Kahiga said the county had more than 20 people in quarantine at Wambugu Agricultural Training Centre. He termed as irresponsible the behaviour of people who had been contravening the containment orders only to land in quarantine. “That is irresponsibility of the highest order because you get yourself into a quarantine facility when you do what is not right or land before a magistrate who sends you to quarantine at your own cost, which is also a burden on us,” he said. “I want to call upon our people to be responsible enough especially in the circumstances under which some of them are being arrested. I think it is embarrassing. I am surprised that people would go to the highest level of indiscipline just to have a beer.” The governor warned that bar owners and managers found having opened their premises for people to drink would be arrested and their licenses cancelled. Nyeri Central deputy county commissioner Joseph Mwangi said there was a need for mass testing starting with all health workers, national government administrative officers (NGAO) and vulnerable groups. Mwangi said residents had not been fully obeying the containment measures, adding that security officials would enforce adherence. Edited by Henry Makori