The Education ministry has commissioned a team to guide its strategy for school reopening and operations in the coronavirus era. The team, Covid-19 National Education Response Committee, will advise Cabinet Secretary George Magoha on reopening and review the schools' calendar. "The ministry has appointed a nine-member committee to take charge of the process of exploring the best possible strategies for restoring normality in the subsector," a statement by Education CS reads. The Kenya Institute for Curriculum Development chairperson Sarah Ruto will chair the committee. Members include Kenya Secondary Schools Association chairman Indimuli Kahi, primary schools heads' representative Nicholas Gathemia, CEO of private schools' lobby Peter Ndoro, Nicholas Maiyo to represent parents and Augustine Muthigani of the Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops. Also in the team are Jane Mwangi representing international schools, Nelson Makanda from the National Council of Churches of Kenya, Sheikh Munawar Khan of the Muslim Education Council and Peter Sitienei, chairman Kenya Special Schools Heads Association. The committee will also work on modalities to ensure those who might have dropped out return to school. The government extended the closure of schools for a month from the date of the second term reopening scheduled for May 4. In April, President Uhuru Kenyatta hinted at a partial reopening of schools and dismissed speculation that the KCPE and  KCSE exams could be cancelled. The President said the Education ministry was working on measures to allow candidates to sit the exams. Headteachers proposal. In April, principals called for a partial reopening of schools for KCPE, KCSE candidates. The heads' lobby also recommended that the government foregoes the second term midterm and reduce the August holiday to recover the time lost. The proposal was backed by the Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut). A May 8 letter by Knut proposed that Magoha gives KCPE and KCSE candidates priority. The safety of learners and teachers should also be guaranteed, the union demanded. Knut asked that classroom rearrangement be done to allow social distancing, which is vital in breaking the coronavirus transmission chain. However, the examination should be administered only when time is ripe to do so, Knut said. As a precaution, Knut suggested that school playgrounds be shut when schools reopen, visits be limited and the suspension on school assemblies. Knut also proposed an end to congregated meals, provision of personal protective equipment for teaching and non-teaching staff. The union called for the fumigation of school compounds and institution blocks before reopening. The letter also called for screening of pupils and staff allowed to access the institutions every morning and evening as a preventive measure. Kuppet The Kenya Union of Post Primary School Teachers in March suggested a complete restructuring of the school calendar. “The minister should discuss the idea of rethinking a new school calendar of events by reorganising term dates… That means the KCPE and KCSE exams cannot go on as proposed,” Kuppet secretary general Akello Misori told the Star in a recent interview. (edited by o. owino)