The Nairobi county assembly has summoned Finance and Economic Planning executive Allan Igambi to shed light on payments to suppliers and contractors. The summons was issued on Wednesday after the assembly’s Public Accounts Committee invited the county finance boss but he failed to avail himself. He is required to appear on Tuesday next week. PAC chairman Wilfred Odalo pointed out that the watchdog committee had written to the CEC several times via letters dated March 12, 2020, March 25, 2020, March 31, 2020, and May 4, 2020, inviting him to attend its meetings but he failed to comply. "The officer has never honoured the invitations and the committee is facing challenges in getting information sought," Odalo said. Igambi was supposed to appear before the committee to give details of all payments made to contractors and suppliers between March 17 and March 25, as extracted from the Internet Banking System and Ifmis. He was also required to submit copies of all Form Bs submitted to and approved by the Controller of Budget for the period of December 31, 2019-March 25, 2020. Further, the executive was to furnish the committee with payment work plans for the period covering December 31, 2020, to March 25, 2020, and expenditure related to the 62nd Commission on the Status of Women conference held in New York from March 12, 2020, to March 23, 2020. On March 10, 2020, Kitusuru MCA Alvin Palapala demanded investigations into why Sh2.4 million was spent on a trip to New York for two members of Nairobi's first family in 2018. He sought justification for the financing of the trip undertaken by Primrose Mbuvi, Governor Mike Sonko's wife, and daughter Saumu Agnes for the 62nd Commission on Status of Women March 12-23 conference. But speaking to the matter, Sonko said he personally paid for his daughter's expenses and that all 'first ladies' were allowed to travel with at least two people sponsored by their counties. However, documents were not submitted before the House. Minority Whip Peter Imwatok told the Star there were claims that about Sh696 million payments were made last week for garbage collection. "We are aware that as recent as last week, payments were done to garbage contractors while we have the Nairobi Metropolitan Service overseeing garbage collection," he said. "As an evidence-based committee, we are only doing our work to ensure public funds are not illegally spent." PAC chairman Odalo's ruling was communicated to the assembly clerk through a memo dated May 6. "On behalf of the committee and pursuant to Article 195 (1) of the Constitution and Section 18 of the County Assembly Powers and Privilege Act, 2017, I wish to request your office to immediately issue a summons to CEC for finance Allan Igambi to appear before the committee on May 12, 2020, at 11am,” the memo read. The decision by the executive to ignore summonses is seen as an affront to the Constitution and the law. The supreme law and the County Assemblies Powers and Privilege Act expressly provide that a county assembly or any of its committees has the power to summon any person to appear before it for the purpose of giving evidence or providing information. Standing Orders of the Nairobi City County Assembly further provide that committees shall enjoy and exercise all the powers and privilege bestowed on the county assembly by the Constitution and statutes, including the power to summon witnesses, receive evidence and to request for and receive papers and documents from the government and the public.