Like many residents of Gikeu in Othaya, Wangari Mwangi, 85, had prepared her land before the onset of long rains and planted, optimistic that she would harvest. But she will now join the list of people who are dependent on relief food for survival after their farms were flooded, destroying all the crops and pasture for their animals. Houses, latrines, wells, churches and graves have not been spared either as they are also submerged. The residents blame their woes on “irresponsible” disposal of solid waste by the county government, leading to blockage of waterways that drained runoff water. The water is contaminated with the refuse and drains into nearby wells and Thuti River making the water a health risk to Gikeu residents and villages downstream. Mwangi says apart from losing everything in her farm, filthy stinking water has pooled around her homestead and farm.  The neighbouring farms are also affected, and some residents have had to leave the area. Samuel Gichuki is lucky that his house is not submerged. But his wife has developed respiratory complications because of the fumes from the site. Smoke billows from the site daily as garbage is burned to create room for more in the half-acre piece of land. “My wife developed respiratory complications and has been in and out of hospital after the fumes and the foul smell from the garbage site affected her,” he says. The place has become hell for people living with respiratory conditions such as asthma. Waigumo Wachira says they have no piped water and depended on wells which are now contaminated. The land is marshy and the contaminated water flows to people’s wells and River Thuti during the rainy season. The site is also a breeding ground for mosquitoes putting them in danger of contracting malaria. A health official visited the site and warned them against using the water for either domestic or irrigation, she says. They say soils have been polluted too and nothing worthwhile can grow in their farms. “We want the county government to stop dumping here and the land rehabilitated. We can have a milk collection centre built on the land or put the area into much better use,” Wachira says. Residents said the situation worsened after the county government started dumping garbage from Nyeri town, Tetu and Mukurwe-ini on top of that generated from Othaya at the garbage site in April. This began after they were also barred from dumping at Karindundu dumpsite in Mathira. Nyeri town has no dumpsite after the one at the Asian quarters was rehabilitated for the construction of a Sh600 million bus terminus. But Gikeu residents say the dumping site is full and can no longer hold any more garbage. Othaya MP Gichuki Mugambi visited the area on Monday and decried the deplorable state of the site. He promised residents that he will look for a solution to the problem. Mugambi agreed with the residents that the dumping site is already full and cannot hold any more garbage. The county should look for alternative land for garbage disposal, he said. “These people have persevered for a long time but I believe that everything that has a beginning must have an end. “We cannot allow the county to dispose of garbage on a half-acre land in a residential area when we know so well that it has ample land in Nyeri town where it can take the garbage,” Mugambi said. He said he would reach out to the governor and officials from the national government to address the issue. Mid this month, residents dug trenches across the access road to the dumpsite to bar Nyeri government refuse trucks from offloading garbage there. Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga held a consultative meeting with the residents and promised them mosquito nets to prevent malaria spread. He also pledged to have insecticides sprayed in the area by the county fire department and that he would grade the road. “The long-term goal is that the area will not only remain as garbage disposal site but rather upgraded to a garbage management centre where garbage can be sorted and the organic waste left be land-filled,” he told the residents. “To ensure this, the process will start with the youth of the community being involved in the venture. Plans are also underway for further plantation of trees to reduce the carbon emissions.” But the residents rejected the pledges by the governor. (edited by o. owino)