A clearing and forwarding agent who was killed in Malaba on Friday night was carrying Sh70,000 but his killers left the money intact after stabbing him 12 times. Komiriai assistant chief Celine Okwara told the Star Paul Etori had a bag in which he carried the money at the time he met his death. “They did not take away any of his belongings. He had a bag with Sh70,000, two mobile phones and a wallet. We recovered all those in the morning where the body was found,” Okwara said. “Even his bike was at the scene. They were just after his life.” When the body was discovered on Saturday, his mobile phones were still on. Teso North police boss Wilson Muraya said Sunday officers from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations had taken over the cases. He said the officers were following up crucial intelligence leads which may lead to the arrest of the killers. Muraya appealed to Malaba residents and family members of the deceased to remain calm and allow the police to carry out investigations. “The motive of the murder is still unknown,” he said while assuring members of the public that the perpetrators would be arrested and arraigned. Etori was murdered on Friday night and his body dumped in a sewerage trench. Clearing agents are essential service providers, thus allowed to work at night during curfew hours to clear cargo trucks crossing the border to Uganda and Kenya. Muraya dispelled rumours that the killers were robbers since they did not take any of the valuables belonging to the late Etori. Teso North youth leader John Omoit on Sunday called on the police to speed up investigations as the incident had left Malaba residents in fear. “We are not pleased with what is happening in this town. Just last December, one businessman was shot dead in his shop. Today, one clearing agent has been found dead. This is alarming,” he said “We do not know who will be next. We ask the security personnel to speed up investigations as we ask for total security for the residents of Teso North.” Teso North Amani National Congress youth chairman Fredick Epalat said it was sad that Etori died at a time his young family still needed him. “We condemn this heinous act in the strongest terms possible,” he said. “We call upon the Teso North security team led by the deputy county commissioner to speed up investigations and bring the perpetrators to book. We demand justice for Paul.” Etori, 38, has left two wives and six children. Edited by Henry Makori