Two brothers got a reprieve after court sets aside their death sentence following their conviction for murder six years ago. They were found guilty of killing their brother over a land dispute. The two will instead serve a 30-year jail term each after the Court of Appeal set aside the High Court ruling. Nicholas and Joe Mwania were arrested and charged in 2007 with the murder of Richard Mwania in Kakutha, Makueni District. They were convicted six years ago. Judge Lilian Mutende convicted and sentenced them to death leading them to appeal. In their judgment, however, appellate judges Martha Koome, Daniel Musinga and Jamilla Mohammed ruled that the prosecution had proven that the two indeed killed their brother. “Consequently, we substitute it with a jail term for each of the appellants for 30 years from June 21, 2007, when they were arrested.” The judges ruled that they were satisfied that the trial judge carefully analysed all the evidence by both the prosecution and defence and arrived at a well-founded decision. They said they altered the sentence because at the time Justice Mutende passed the sentence, death was the mandatory sentence for anyone convicted of murder hence her hands were tied. "However, the Supreme Court has since ruled that mandatory death sentence is unconstitutional as it denies the court its legitimate duty of considering an accused’s mitigation before passing sentence," they noted. In their appeal, the brothers urged the court to consider that they were the deceased’s siblings and that it was a family dispute. They also said they have been in jail for over 10 years, thus wanted a review of the sentence. Richard’s wife had testified at the trial court narrating how she witnessed the accused hack her husband to death. Dorcas Mueni told the court that around 10am while going to the farm with her husband that day, they met his two brothers. “They were where my husband had harvested beans. Nicholas was sitting down, and his son standing beside him. Joe was also standing. When my husband approached them, they said they should accomplish their mission,” she said. Court records show that Nicholas was the first to cut the deceased with a panga. When he fell to the ground, papers read, Joe cut him on the head and his brain splashed out. The widow rushed to the chief to report the case and they alerted the police leading to their arrest. One of their sons was set free at the trial court for lack of evidence. Nicholas and Joe have since maintained their innocence, denying the testimony that put them at the scene of the crime. Edited by R.Wamochie