The Eastleigh Business Community is recommending Coronavirus mass testing across all the 85 wards in Nairobi. They argued that this will assist the government to reveal the true situation of the virus in Nairobi which is an epicentre. Eastleigh Business Community Secretary-General Ahmed Noor has argued as much as the cessation movement in the estate was in order, Covid-19 cases have also been reported in other city estates. “It is not enough to close down businesses but there’s also need for mass testing across the 85 wards so that the Government can effectively fight the pandemic. We have many people from other estates working in Eastleigh, who move in and out. This is what the government should take into account,” he said. Traders and employees have not been able to access Eastleigh as the Government’s directive on cessation of movement took effect on May 6, 2020. The Secretary-General raised concerns that the business community was counting losses due to lack of business as malls and markets were directed to be closed. “Some Business owners can withstand the 15-day cessation but what about those depend on us like the car washers, security guards, waiters, and others who depend on the Eastleigh economy for their daily wages?” he posed. The Ministry of Health invoked the provision of the Public Health Act and directed the immediate closure of markets, restaurants and eateries within the two virus hotspots of Nairobi’s Eastleigh and Mombasa’s Old Town, as well as the cessation of public transport. Noor explained that Eastleigh as a business hub has attracted many people from South C, South B, and Eastlands estates such as Kayole, Umoja, Embakasi, even Kilimani and Karen, which shows how far the disease might have travelled. Other estates with confirmed Covid-19 cases include Kawangware, Kilimani, Umoja, Donholm, Pipeline, Kariobangi South, Embakasi, Parklands, South C, South B, Juja Road, Riruta, Parklands, Kayole among others. However, last week on Friday the government ruled out targeted mass testing. Health Acting Director-General Patrick Amoth had said the targeted testing was only applicable in specific circumstances. “Tests are based on contact-tracing. We only carry out targeted mass testing if we are not able to map the contacts,” he said. Eastleigh Northward rep Osman Adow had raised concerned that the cessation would lockout, trucks ferrying food in and out of Eastleigh would be grounded, putting area residents at risk of starvation. “We are not fighting the lockdown but I think our officers stationed at the various border points should be instructed to allow vehicles ferrying foodstuffs to pass,” he noted. On Friday, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i on instructions from President Uhuru Kenyatta met members of the Eastleigh Business Community to discuss collaborative ways of battling Covid-19. It was emphasized that the best way the community can curb the spread of Covid-19 is by observing the law and guidelines He also refuted claims that the cessation posed in Eastleigh was malicious and ill-intended. “The President wants me to assure you the people of Eastleigh and all the citizens of the Republic of Kenya; that we are all part of one big family. So no one should say that by closing this place or that place down, we are targeting a certain community,” Matiang’i said. “This is a time for us to pull together; it is not a time to spread malicious propaganda. We are one as Kenyans, we hurt, when we lose even one person.”