The Judiciary has been unable to mount online hearings countrywide due to lack of funds, High Court judge David Majanja has said. Majanja, who was part of a panel discussing access to justice in the context of Covid-19, said there has been very little investment in the judicial sector. He said this has always been an issue in the country. The online session was moderated by Teresa Mutua and Silas Kamanza of the International Commission of Jurists Kenya section. Majanja said in their proposal for the financial year 2020-21 they asked for a substantial increase in the budget for access to justice, which includes investment in technology, facilities, mediation and pro bono services. “The pandemic has provided a particular challenge to us. Technology, in this case, is an enabler of justice but it is not cheap. The fundamental question is how much we are willing to invest in it for access to justice. We hope our proposals will be accepted,” he said. In 2018, the national government's budgetary policy statement capped the Judiciary budget at Sh17.3 billion, with recurrent expenditure at Sh 13.3 billion and development expenditure at Sh4 billion. This comprised Sh1.05 billion from the government, a World Bank loan of Sh2.9 billion and a JSC ceiling of Sh479.6 million. However, when Parliament passed the Appropriations Act, the Judiciary's total budget allocation was reduced to Sh14. 5 billion. Out of this, the development budget from the government was only Sh50 million. The money was expected to cover new and ongoing projects, repairs and maintenance as well as ICT infrastructure for the courts. But even as Chief Justice David Maraga decried under-funding on numerous occasions, the President in January said the Judiciary would have to make do with what they had been allocated. Judge Majanja cited the unwillingness of many lawyers and litigants to accommodate and embrace technology in order to ensure court process are running. “We are being told lawyers have not been paid and therefore they can't go on with matters even if put on technology platforms,” he said. But Law Society of Kenya president Nelson Havi has on numerous occasions said there is need for tutorials to enable legal practitioners to acquaint themselves with the current technology in use. Don Deya, the executive director of Pan African Lawyers Union, said many judicial officers were as frustrated as advocates about how the systems work. “Assessing of filing fees is taking long; online payment is a challenge in many places; rapidly converting our criminal justice system into online procedure or distant procedures has not been easy. In such circumstances individual acts of excellence count,” he said. Majanja identified other issues such as inadequate facilities in courts, video conferencing facilities and cybercrime security. He said the Judiciary will ultimately have a serious backlog. This, he said, may further impede access to justice and that is why they need to start thinking of how to avoid such an eventuality. Edited by Henry Makori