Disclosure of cessation of movement rules would lead to mass relocation from targeted localities and serve no purpose, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has said. Kagwe says in a court affidavit that there cannot be public participation prior to the announcement of the cessation of movement rules. The affidavit is in response to a petition filed by activist Okiya Omtatah challenging the cessation of movement rules imposed on Kenyans. The CS asserts that the objectives would have been undermined if the rules were subjected to public participation prior to the declaration of movement restrictions. “Disclosing these rules prior to publication would have led to panic reactions and pre-emptive mass movements from the infected areas.  The rules would have served no meaningful purpose.” Kagwe says he has been advised by experts in the Public Health that without the restrictions, uncontrolled interactions between persons, including those who are asymptomatic, would accelerate community transmission across the country, thereby jeopardising efforts aimed at containing the spread of the virus. “In view of the emergency circumstances occasioned by the rapid spread of Covid-19, the need for immediate action to prevent and control the spread of the same, public consultation was not feasible prior to the publication of the rules.” According to Kagwe, the precipitate measures that the rules seek to implement were undertaken within the context of necessity which is permitted in law within the context of the prevailing circumstances. He further argues that the petition filed by Omtatah is similar to other petitions awaiting determination in court and therefore subjudice. The CS has also defended the imposition of the rules on the grounds that the High Court in the case of LSK vs Hillary Mutyambai and others upheld that the government was entitled to act on the basis of precautionary principles to contain the spread of Covid-19. “If the conservatory orders were to be issued in the interim, the same would occasion a situation where there would be no legal mechanism, to ensure social and physical distancing, the wearing of face masks, restrictions of movements into and out of geographical areas that have been identified as having or likely to have high incidences of infections the upshot of which would be detrimental to the containment of the spread of Covid-19 and general public interest.” Omtatah has sued the Ministry of Health and wants the court to suspend the rules on cessation and mandatory quarantine imposed on Kenyans, arguing that they are illegal.  - mwaniki fm 