The concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is the highest in 60 years, the United Nations Environment Programme has said. UNEP said in a statement that the most recent data from the United States National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association shows global carbon dioxide levels are rising sharply. “This is, of course, of great concern for our climate, and demonstrates, yet again, that urgent action is needed to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. “To keep average global warming to 1.5°C we need to achieve net-zero emissions by 2040 (2055 at the latest),” says Pascal Peduzzi, director of UNEP/GRID-Geneva and programme manager of the World Environment Situation Room. In April 2020, the average concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere was 416.21 parts per million (ppm), the highest since measurements began in Hawaii in 1958, the data shows. The results come as a surprise to those who assumed that Covid-19 will reduce total global emissions. Owing to lockdowns, vehicular and air traffic, as well as industrial activity, has reduced sharply in most parts of the world since January 2020. This, however, is not the case with our electricity supply: 64 per cent of the global electricity energy mix comes from fossil fuels (coal: 38 per cent, gas: 23 per cent, oil: 3 per cent), according to the World Energy Outlook 2019. Heating systems have been functioning as before Covid-19. None of the fundamentals has changed (such as the shift to renewable energy, public transport, deforestation). Furthermore, ice core records indicate that such levels have not been seen in the last 800,000 years. According to the UNEP World Environment Situation Room, there is a sharp increase in carbon dioxide concentrations of more than 100 ppm since March 1958. “The curve shows expected seasonal fluctuations: the northern hemisphere has a greater land mass than the southern hemisphere and more vegetation-absorbing CO2 during the summer.” Global carbon dioxide concentrations peak in May at the end of the northern hemisphere winter. Then, as photosynthesis takes place and new foliage appears, it absorbs carbon dioxide, lowering concentrations by about 7.5 ppm until October. During the northern hemisphere winter, the Earth has less photosynthesis activity, so carbon dioxide concentrations go up until the next cycle. However, owing to emissions from human activities, carbon dioxide concentrations are not only increasing but accelerating.