Deputy President William Ruto's allies in Rift Valley have accused President Uhuru Kenyatta of engaging in irrelevant political schemes to demean the DP. The MPs and senators said Uhuru's latest move to spearhead the removal of senators Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet) and Susan Kihika (Nakuru) from the Senate leadership will backfire. “We tirelessly campaigned for Uhuru day and night, singing UhuRuto all over. I never expected to see the President fighting a woman like Kihika and a young man like Murkomen. It's shameful for a President to engage in a political tussle with such small people,” Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi said. Sudi, Nandi Senator Stephen Cherargei and Soy MP Caleb Kositany accused Uhuru of showing the highest possible disrespect for Ruto and his supporters. They regretted helping the President to win three elections “It’s more shameful and embarrassing to see a whole President engaging in such political schemes and battles in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic. I ask the President to tame his political greed and remember that he is just human like us and will not live for 500 years,” Sudi said. Cherargei asked Uhuru to remove Ruto and his allies from government instead of carrying our piecemeal changes. “Let him just get a list of all Ruto allies and sack them at ago because he is the President,” he said. Cherargei said instead of the President working to reconcile the country and fight the coronavirus, he is busy scheming political divisions that are not helpful to Kenyans. “He should be the one spearheading our coming together as Jubilee Party, not engaging in stupid infightings," Cherargei said. Daniel Rono of Keiyo South, who spoke separately, said Uhuru has backstabbed them politically. The legislators said they would stay put and fight within Jubilee and no amount of scheming will stop Ruto’s 2022 ambitions. They vowed to keep fighting to liberate poor citizens from the suffering caused by political dynasties which, they claimed, are scheming to force a President on Kenyans in 2022. “The children of the dynasties have looted the entire economy right from the milk sector, agriculture and land,” Sudi said. Edited by A.N