Intense lobbying is going on for the position of deputy vice chancellor (administration, finance, and development) at Kibabii University. The position fell vacant following the resignation of Prof Shem Aywa. Prof Siamba Donald Namasaka was appointed on an acting capacity on May 4, 2019. Upon expiry of the initial six months, the period was extended to May 2020. When the position was advertised, 10 dons applied and were shortlisted by the Public Service Commission for interviews, which have already been conducted. The position has attracted a lot of interest as the holder of the office is strategically positioned to take over from vice chancellor Isaac Ipara, whose first five-year term expires next year. If his term is renewed, then Prof Ipara will serve another five years. If his term is not renewed, then the race to succeed him will be wide open. Any of his deputies can take over in acting capacity as a replacement is sought. The local community, political leaders and students have thrown their weight behind Siamba. In a letter to the university council, John Wanjala Masinde, a member of the community, demanded Siamba's immediate confirmation. “In the event that Prof Siamba is not confirmed, we shall have no otherwise but to hold demonstrations and further move to court,” the letter reads. The race is believed to have narrowed down to three top candidates: Siamba, Prof Emmy Jerono Kipsoi and Prof Lydia Kutima. Intense lobbying and horse-trading have taken centre stage as various camps push for the appointment of their preferred candidate. Siamba enjoys the support of the local leadership but other candidates have mobilised their troops. Lydia is the wife of Kakamega Deputy Governor Phillip Kutima. It is believed that she enjoys the support of the ODM party's top brass. A source at Kibabii University, who declined to be named because of the sensitivity of the matter, said Jerono had been considered as a compromise candidate following serious lobbying. News of her impending appointment has muddied the waters, however, and the university is pondering the next move. It is said her supporters now fear that the local community and the university fraternity may oppose the decision to pick her. Her supporters say her appointment represents the face of Kenya. Jerono and Kutima's camps are also playing the gender card, angering the local community. Local leaders wonder why gender balance is now an issue yet all occupants of the top management positions, including the VC and his three deputies, were men. “Why is the gender issue being raised now? Why was it initially ignored and now it’s being brought up when a local son is about to take the helm of the university management?” said a local leader who sought anonymity because of the sensitivity of the matter. Siamba, who is from Kimilili constituency, is the only senior-most local don at the university after Prof Aywa and Prof Solomon Shibairo left. The deputy VC in charge of Planning, Partnerships, Research and Innovation, Prof Benedict Mutua, is from Ukambani. The office that was initially occupied by Prof Shibairo is now run by Prof Julius Maiyo in an acting capacity. The council is said to have a soft spot for Maiyo, who is likely to be confirmed to the position. The university council comprises Dr Ernest Mwangi Njoroge as the chairman, VC Ipara as the secretary, Hussein Abdi Farah, Francis Asunah, Vincent Nyabiosi, Tom Mboya Wambua, Mwaka Mungatana, Michael Jasper Obonyo and Dr Joyce Wanjiru Ngure. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya