The government has begun dredging rivers and streams in flood-prone Muhoroni and Nyando in Kisumu. The Ministry of Water and Irrigation has provided seven excavators — three for Muhoroni and four for Nyando. Muhoroni MP Onyango K'Oyoo launched excavation in Oroba, Ombeyi, and Ang'wech rivers on Wednesday. He said the exercise was a short-term solution as the government works on permanent measures. More than 62,000 residents have been displaced by floods in Muhoroni and Nyando after River Nyando burst its banks. Backflow from Lake Victoria also led to flooding. Crops such as maize, rice and vegetables have been swept away. “Our people have been massively affected by floods and plans are underway to permanently address the menace,” K'Oyoo said. He called for speedy construction of the Sh40 billion Koru-Soin dam. “The dam is the best solution to perennial floods that leave thousands homeless and cause massive property damage,” K'Oyoo said. He appealed for proper public participation and compensation for families who will be displaced to make way for the dam. K'Oyoo said those affected must be given land to build homes. The MP dismissed claims he opposed construction of the dam. “Such allegations are baseless,” he said. The project stalled in 2016 after the contract was awarded. The dam is to be built on the border of Kisumu and Kericho counties. Last year in Koru, President Uhuru Kenyatta told residents they would be compensated. He urged the community to withdraw court cases holding up the construction. "Let's engage in dialogue with the national government to allow construction of the dam. It is for our own benefit,” K'Oyoo said. Muhoroni and Soin residents rejected the dam, demanding proper engagement. They complained of lack of public participation. K'Oyoo told residents their views would be taken into consideration. Charles Otieno, secretary of the Soin-Koru dam committee, said no public participation took place. He said they are not against the project but they want proper engagement and compensation. The dam is expected to supply as much as 70 million litres of water. The dam, to be located five kilometres upstream on River Nyando, is expected to end water shortages in Kericho, Nandi and Kisumu. The dam, first mooted in the 1980s, will also control flooding in lower Nyando, supply water for industry, and generate hydroelectric power. By acting as a sediment trap, the Koru-Soin dam will reduce sediment loading and deposits downstream which is the main cause of flooding. National Water Harvesting and Storage Authority acting CEO Geoffrey Sang said a feasibility study had already been done and the designs finalised. He said compensation for residents to be displaced will be factored in the construction budget. During a stakeholders' meeting in Kisumu, Sang said they were waiting for allocation from the national government to start implementation. The project will also have a treatment plant. Water will be supplied to Muhoroni, Koitaburot, Koru, Chemelil, Awasi, Miwani, Ahero, Rabuor, Riat Technical College, Mamboleo as well as Kisumu city. Special Economic Zone chief executive officer Meshack Kimeu said the Soin-Koru dam will be relied on for implementation of a 1,000-acre project in Miwani. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya