President Uhuru Kenyatta has been criticised by senators over his loud silence on the appointment of 41 individuals selected as Court of Appeal and High Court judges. The lawmakers said the President's inaction has crippled services in courts and violated the rights of the designated judges. Minority Chief Whip Mutula Kilonzo Jr raised the matter and demanded to know why the names have not been gazetted, even after a court directed so. “I want an explanation on the continued failure by the Executive to obey court orders under a judgment delivered on February 6, 2020; hence jeopardising the administration on justice,” the Makueni senator said. Speaker Kenneth Lusaka directed the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee to immediately summon Attorney General Paul Kihara to explain why the names of the officers have not been gazetted and report to the House on Tuesday. Minority leader James Orengo, a senior counsel, pointed an accusing figure at the President for refusing to obey the court order. Eleven judges were forwarded to the Court of Appeal and 30 to the High Court. They were interviewed and selected in July last year. In February 2020, a three-Judge bench of the High Court ruled that the President had no mandate to review, reconsider or decline to appoint those recommended for promotion by the Judicial Service Commission. The bench declared that the President is bound by the recommendations made by the JSC on persons to be appointed and the failure to make the appointments is a violation of the Constitution as well as the JSC Act. Orengo said the President’s continued disobedience of the court ruling was a direct assault on the rule of law and the independence and functioning of the Judiciary. “A country which cannot have judges is a banana republic. I am saying that without fear of contradiction. It is only in a banana republic where you cannot have a system of courts,” he said. Orengo demanded the topmost office in the land come clean on the delay. “That answer should come from the top to tell us why it is so difficult to comply with court orders. This is primary,” he added. Senator Mohamed Faki (Mombasa) said the President’s inaction has grounded court services across the country because of the shortage of judges. He cited the Court of Appeal branches in Mombasa, Nakuru and Kisumu counties, saying they have all been disbanded and the court brought to Nairobi. “It means that court services are no longer devolved. We have to spend a lot of money to come to Nairobi to access services of the Judiciary,” Faki said. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya