Despite being comfortably ensconced in mid-table in the National Super League standing which was declared over by Football Kenya Federation last week, Murang’a Seal coach David Mahira has taken issue with FKF’s haste in concluding the season due to the coronavirus threat. Mahira said wider consultation and a little patience could have seen an amicable solution reached by all stakeholders. “While the health and safety of the players and all those involved are of utmost importance, I believe the federation erred in rushing to end the season,” stated Mahira. The Seal coach continued: “I know some clubs have invested heavily in the second leg to try and achieve their objectives but now all that has come to nought. Despite Nairobi City Stars enjoying a comfortable lead at the top, eight other clubs were challenging for promotion and that now has been stopped.” He also complained that a chance to give his young new recruits an opportunity to gain experience in the second tier league had passed them. “For us, the second leg was about giving our new signings the chance to play in NSL and gather the experience in order to be ready for next season. Unfortunately, that opportunity is no longer there,” rued Mahira. The statement by FKF confirmed the promotion of City Stars and Bidco. At the same time, Mahira has lauded the recent decision by NSL sponsors, Betika to give cash token to all players. He confirmed that all players registered with Seal even those who moved on during the mid-season transfer window had received the Sh5,000 aid. Elsewhere, FKF President Nick Mwendwa has dismissed claims of lack of activity at their Goal Project at Kasarani due to vandalism as a figment of someone’s imagination. Former FKF Nairobi branch secretary-general, Stephen ‘Ragos’ Onyango, has elicited reaction with unsubstantiated and wild allegations that the federation was for inexplicable reasons, carting away office equipment. “There are some fellows who are creating an impression that there is no work going on at FKF. We have never been more bouncy. We are getting the job done and we will get the job done,” he asserted. Mwendwa revealed that normal work is going on the FKF secretariat but due to the government’s orders on social distancing, not all employees are reporting to work at the same time. “Normally there are about 45 people at FKF but with this COVOD-19 situation, we have changed a lot of things and we only have twelve people working at the federation at any particular time on a rotational basis,” explained the federation boss. Mwendwa said the federation is healthy and intact and that is why the sponsors have committed to continue working with them.