Sikh Union striker Davis Wanangwe has urged incoming national team coaches to maintain the bulk of the team that played at the Olympic qualifiers last year. Wanangwe observed that the current team is naturally-talented and have the potential to succeed. Fidelis Kimanzi and Michael Malungu were named as head and assistant coaches respectively though the former is still contemplating whether to accept the offer despite the announcement being made in February. Wanangwe is a three-time Premier League title winner, twice with Strathmore and once with his current club. The 29-year old former international retired in 2014 because of a knee injury that had kept him out for a whole season. Davis, a brother to Butali Warriors attacker Frank Wanangwe, has been the top scorer on three different occasions. “Compared to my days in the national team, I think the current generation is more talented and more agile,” said Wanangwe. “The team is young and can only get better. With the addition of some experienced players to ensure stability and mental toughness, the team can go places. People have different ideas though but I feel this is the direction that should be taken.” Wanangwe, who was  Kenya’s top scorer with six goals during the 2011 African Cup of Nations, reckons that the project started by former coach, Meshack Senge, should be allowed to thrive. Meanwhile, Wanangwe has opened up on his injuries. Trouble started in 2011 when he started feeling sharp pains on his left knee whenever he ran and it was not until 2014 when he went under the knife. In 2018, the forward took a six-month break with the same problem. He has also rested since October last year but says he is feeling better now. “The way hockey is played, with a lot of bending, could probably be the cause. Before surgery, I couldn’t change direction during training or in a match due to the pain,” he added. “Knee problems are common in the game and players to have had to live with them. I still have few years to play before retiring.”