The Sasumua dam is set for commissioning either on Saturday or Sunday morning, the Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company has said. Nairobi Water  MD Nahason Muguna said water supply to the affected estates is set to be stabilised as from next week. “We will then embark on rationing programme of a weekly cycle where everyone will get water,” Muguna told the Star on the phone on Friday. Sasumua water supply was interrupted on May 8 following a massive landslide in the Aberdare Forest. On Tuesday, Muguna said  repair works were going on. "It is expected that by May 31, the temporary reinstatement works will be completed," he said. "The works require re-routing of the pipeline to avoid recurring damages of the pipeline in the current route as this is the third time this pipeline has been damaged in the same area by landslides". The landslide damaged 600 metres of the main pipeline that supplies water from Sasumua Dam to Nairobi. The Nairobi water boss said the Ministry of Water, Athi Water Works Development Agency and NCWSC had mobilised engineers to fix the problem. Muguna said the new route will involve laying of 3.5km water pipeline. "The work will take six weeks at an estimated cost of Sh362 million." He said areas that have been getting water from Sasumua will receive water with low pressure during the supply day under the water rationing programme. The areas affected include those along Waiyaki Way, Naivasha Road, Kangemi, Lavington, Westlands, Parklands, MP Shah Hospital, Aga Khan Hospital and ILRI, Upper Hill, Kilimani, Nairobi Hospital, Kenyatta National Hospital and Community. Others are University of Nairobi main campus hall of residence, Upper and Lower Kabete campuses, the University of Nairobi and Kenyatta University Parklands law campuses. Estates around Kenyatta market, Kibera, Lang’ata, Jamhuri, Ngando, Riruta/Satelite, Dagoretti Corner and Kawangware are also affected. Areas along Lang’ata Road, Madaraka Estate, Mbagathi and Ngong roads, Karen, Loresho, Nyari, Kitisuru, estates along Peponi Road, New Muthaiga and Thigiri Ridge also do not have the commodity. Meanwhile, Muguna said the supply of water to the city from Ngethu Water Treatment plant that had also been frequently interrupted by the high turbidity is back to full capacity. High turbidity had led to the blockage of the intake along Chania River. With the rains subsiding in the Aberdare Ranges, however, Ngethu Water Treatment Works is back to full capacity and water supply in the CBD. Water supply to estates along Thika/Outer Ring Road, Mombasa Road, Kangundo Road, Kiambu Road - the Eastern part of the city - is back to normal. Muguna said the supply of water in other towns within the Nairobi metropolis, including Thika, Gatundu, Limuru and Ruiru, with water intakes in the rivers whose catchments is the Aberdare forests had also been interrupted. "We appeal for indulgence as we work towards restoring the production of water and its distribution to normalcy. We further appeal to our customers to use the available water sparingly," he said. Edited by EKibii