Agitated contractors and suppliers want the Garissa county government to pay them an outstanding debt of Sh1.9 billion. They have appealed to area Senator Yusuf Haji to address their plight. Addressing the press at a Garissa hotel, the 20 contractors drawn from across the county and who rendered services during the previous regime said Senator Haji was yet to comment on the pending bill, despite their numerous efforts to have him intervene. Abdirahman Ahmed said senators from other counties had been piling pressure on their governors to account for funds allocated to them but Yusuf Haji has never uttered a word on the issue. Efforts to get a comment from the senator on the matter were not successful as his phone was switched off. “The senator should stop hiding behind BBI, of which he is the chair, turning a blind eye on the plight of the people who elected him into that position. We want Haji to state his position in public on the issue of the pending bill,” Ahmed said. The contractors said on several occasions money had been allocated to settle pending bills but not a single  penny went into paying them. “We have witnessed in the past where such monies are paid to undeserving contractors," Ahmed said. Ajib Yusuf said most of them had been struggling to fend for their families while others risked having their properties auctioned for failing to repay loans they took. “Most of us you see here are barely surviving, with auctioneers threatening to auction our properties including the houses we leave in. Surely, did it have to get to this level?” he said. “The government is here telling us to follow the guidelines and stay at home to stop the spread of coronavirus, which we are doing. But, surely, how do you stay at home with children on an empty stomach when you know that money the county owes you has not been paid?” The contractors urged the National Treasury to withhold funds allocated to the county by the national government until they are paid. Treasury CS Ukur Yatani last year said the government had noted with a lot of concern that departments and agencies in both the national and county governments had persistently failed to pay their outstanding bills. Yatani said delayed payments had led to a deterioration of the financial positions of businesses and SMEs, with a negative impact on the economy. He threatened that Treasury would withhold funds for counties that failed to pay contractors and suppliers who rendered services. Edited by Henry Makori