President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday witnessed the swearing-in of General Robert Kariuki Kibochi as the new Chief of the Kenya Defence Forces. General Kibochi takes over the leadership of the Kenya Defence Force from General Samson Mwathethe who retired after serving as CDF for five years. Previously, General Kibochi, who was accompanied to State House by his wife Tabitha Kariuki, served as the Vice Chief of the Kenya Defence Forces. Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua conducted the swearing-in ceremony. Speaking during the ceremony, Uhuru commended the KDF for upholding merit and professionalism. “I commend the Cabinet Secretary and the Ministry of Defence team for ensuring a seamless transition. This signals our maturity in governance and a strong belief in the civil transfer of power, as envisaged in our Constitution," he said. Uhuru called on other government institutions to emulate the standard as a best practice. The Head of State exuded confidence that with commitment and determination the new military top brass led by General Kibochi will protect and defend the territorial integrity of Kenya even as the country deals with modern security challenges and other natural occurrences. “I am confident that you will steer our Defence Forces with steady hands. I expect no less from the incoming team and neither do the citizens of this country," he said. “You are taking the mantle of leadership at the KDF at a time when the country, region and the world is confronted by a number of threats and risks. Apart from the terrorist threat that faces us, we are confronting Covid-19, the floods, and the locusts' invasion." The President thanked Mwathethe for his exemplary service saying the retired CDF had served the nation selflessly, with loyalty and dedication. “As you revert to being a civilian, as a retired CDF, you must do so with pride because you have served well. I also hope that you will remain available to your colleagues, whenever they may need your counsel,” he said. The recently appointed military chiefs among them Vice Chief of Defence Forces Lt. Gen Levi Mghalu and Commander of the Kenya Navy, Major General Jimson Mutai were also sworn in at the colourful military ceremony attended by Defence CS  Monica Juma and Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai. As part of their contribution to the national fight against Coronavirus, KDF donated Sh102 million to the Kenya Covid-19 Fund, money raised from voluntary salary cuts within the military.