A fierce pro-Ruto lawmaker from the Rift Valley fears a case against him that stalled about two years ago could be revived as President Uhuru Kenyatta gets aggressive with DP's allies. The MP had been accused of embezzling NG-CDF funds but the case did not proceed as one of the key witnesses against him died under unclear circumstances. With the renewed war against Deputy President allies, the vocal politician has gone into some sort of hibernation. It is alleged that a senior government official called him recently and warned him that if he continued with his attacks on the President, then his case would be revived. There are reports the politician could have felt threatened and decided to go into hiding. Did some MPs from the native home of a Cabinet Secretary secure some Sh150 million contract to supply face masks? Details have emerged that the deal was given to two MPs from the home county of the CS to import face masks when Covid-19 broke out in the country and before local manufacturing could be sanctioned. The MPs are said to have used a proxy company associated with one of the MP's relative. However, it would appear that the contract, which was classified as an emergency tender and therefore exempted from tough procurement laws, could have been just but a cash cow. No face masks were supplied. It is not clear whether the politicians served as a conduit for the CS's rapacious thirst for money. A Member of Parliament from central Kenya allied to a powerful Principal Secretary has become a nuisance in the latter's office. The politician has been camping at the influential office without a clear agenda until it emerged that he has been seeking for financial favours. The MP has been demanding a lot of money from the PS for allegedly 'managing' any attacks from his colleagues. As if that is not all, there are concerns that the MP could have secured a government vehicle courtesy of the PS, which he uses with private number plates. A fall out between the two looms large and the vehicle could soon be confiscated. 