South B estate residents have decried the re-emergence of toxic emissions which might result in health complications amid the spread of Coronavirus in the city. Eagle Plains Estate, in South B, is among the many locations along Mombasa Road that have raised concerns of the emission which started over the weekend. It is suspected that the emissions are from the nearby manufacturing companies. The chairperson of Eagle Plains Estate residents association Edgar Mwandawiro on Tuesday explained to the Star that a number of people had complained of breathing complications, nose bleeding, respiratory problems and itchy eyes. Parents have had to seek medical attention since children are the worst affected. "We have a nursery school within the estate and we fear for our kids once schools resume. Some residents have expressed willingness to relocate to other places if the toxic smell doesn’t stop," he explained. To reveal the seriousness of the matter the residents on Monday led by South B Ward rep Waithera petitioned the National Environment Management Authority (Nema). They gave Nema seven days to investigate the source of the toxic emissions, failure to which legal actions would be taken. Consequently, the authority visited the estate the same day and met with the residents association. According to Mwandawiro, Nema will share the report next week after concluding its investigations. South B MCA Waithera Chege urged NEMA to deal with the matter and make sure the culprits are charged. She noted that toxic emissions had been experienced last year. “It’s against human rights for companies to continue making profits at the expense of our health,” Waithera said Last year in April, three companies; Powerex, Edibles Oils and UsafiPlus were closed down indefinitely. This was after Environment CS Keriako Tobiko ordered a probe of the factories near the estate following complaints from residents. Tobiko had directed the National Environmental Complaints Committee led by John Chumo and Nema to investigate the matter urgently. The ward reps now want Nema to reveal who directed the opening of the companies despite an order being given for their closure. “We cannot afford to start having respiratory problems as we are trying to combat the spread of the Coronavirus. On behalf of South B residents, I demand the closure of the companies found culpable and they should as well foot the medical expenses of the affected residents," Waithera said. She is now demanding for Nema to say who re-opened the companies and if the conditions set were met before reopening, findings of last year’s probe and why the order was lifted without informing the complainants and the MCA on behalf of the people of Nairobi South. “I demand that Nema close the concerned companies, foot the medical expenses incurred by residents until the companies are closed as well as make full disclosure of the owners of the companies,” she said.