Newly-promoted national Division One side Coastal Kings are seeking to become the top team in Mombasa and the entire region, according to coach Anthony Ojukwu. The veteran tactician said his focus is to see the self-supporting team promoted to the Premier League in two years before taking on the country’s top guns including Mombasa giants Kenya Ports Authority (KPA). “ We can’t wait for this day because it will be the derby of the year,” he said. He observed that since the team exclusively comprise of Mombasa-based players, the residents need to identify with the club and rally behind them. “If they work hard, the results will be there for all to see and they will rival KPA in every front in future,” he noted. “KPA have dominated basketball in Mombasa for years and It is good to have another challenger in town. This will also ensure that players who fail to join the dockside have an option. The potential is there in plenty,” Ojukwu added. He said: “I am confident we will hold our own in Division 1 as we fight for promotion to the Premier League this year. What we need to do is to change our mentality of not just going out there to have fun but to work hard and be serious competitors.” Ojukwu, who also handles the 16-time national women champions KPA, said there is need to have extensive talks with the community and well-wishers to chart the way forward for the club in future. The team needs every support in Mombasa. He noted that Coastal Kings is a young and ambitious club that can only get better with time. The team boosts mainly high school leavers and those waiting to join various universities. Lennox Wanje, Aggrey Aran and Anthony Gitau will lead the Coastal Kings when the season starts. “The trio brought a lot of stability and experience to the team during last year’s league matches. We will rely on their performances when the action resumes and I expect them to live up to expectations,” Ojukwu said. Last year while featuring in Division 2, the team, according to the coach, had set a target to be among the top four and ended up runners up. “We hope to apply the same strategy as we battle our Division One opponents. There is talent spread over 20 teams that play in the Coast Provincial League.  The most promising amongst them can be nurtured and incorporated in Coastal Kings,” Said Ojukwu. Team official Belinda Nakhanu is convinced with support, the club could go places.