The government has heightened surveillance along the border with Tanzania following rising cases of Covid-19 in the neighbouring country. According to the World Health Organisation, Tanzania, which neighbours Kenya to the south, on Wednesday reported 180 new cases bringing the total to 480. Tanzania now tops the list of the six East African community nations. Kenya comes second with 396 cases (as of Thursday), Rwanda (225 as of Wednesday), Uganda(79 ), South Sudan (34) and Burundi (15). Unlike other countries in East Africa that put stringent measures to stop the spread of coronavirus, the Tanzanian government allowed citizens to continue with business as usual. On Thursday, Tanzania suspended Parliament after two MPs died in a row in mysterious circumstances. On Friday morning, President John Magufuli announced the death of the country’s Minister of Constitutional and Legal Affairs Augustine Mahiga. A statement from Tanzania's State House said Mahiga died while being rushed to a hospital. The statement, however, did not indicate what killed the minister who is also a nominated MP, only stating that he died after a short illness. Government spokesman Cyrus Oguna on Friday said the government had not only enhanced surveillance at the official entry points but also sensitised locals along the border to report cases of people crossing to Kenya. He said apart from trucks that are allowed to transport goods either way “any other movement is being monitored.” Kenya has three entry points at Lunga Lunga (Kwale), Namanga (Kajiado) and Isibania (Migori) but there are many illegal routes, which make it easy for people to cross in and out of Kenya. “The Government of Kenya is aware of what is happening in Tanzania. Health officials have been stationed at all official entry points and they are checking all truck drivers coming in and leaving Kenya. “In areas where some people may cross in and out of the country using the unofficial points, the locals have been told to report such people to the nearest police station, the office of the assistant chief or the chief,” Oguna told the Star. Edited by Henry Makori