President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration has allocated Sh127.3 billion to the Big Four agenda for the next financial year. The meagre allocation lays bare the worrisome extent to which budget cuts for Covid-19 emergencies have taken a toll of the President’s development agenda. The provision is about 28 per cent of the Sh450.9 billion allocated to drivers and enablers of the development agenda in the current budget. Treasury allocated Sh400 billion to the venture in 2018-19 –  the first since the President’s declaration, bringing the total allocation to Sh987 billion so far. President Kenyatta unveiled the plan pillared on food security, manufacturing, Universal Health Coverage and affordable housing in 2017. With barely two years left to his retirement, the reduced funding strikes concerns that the Jubilee administration may not achieve the Big Four agenda. Documents from the National Treasury show that the government has allocated Sh50 billion for UHC. Of this, the Health ministry is set to receive the largest share at Sh47.3 billion while Sh1 billion will be allocated to the Infrastructure department to support UHC. Some Sh637 million of the health cash has been allocated to the Energy ministry for electrification of hospitals whereas the Water ministry will get Sh759 million. Treasury CS Ukur Yatani intends to spend Sh409 million for ICT works at hospitals and Sh109 million for hospitals’ construction works. At least Sh52 billion has been allocated for food security – now threatened by locust invasion and reduced farming activities owing to Covid19. The Crops department will take up Sh29.3 billion of the food cash while Sh10 billion will go into Water projects that support food production. Livestock department has been allocated Sh2.6 billion; whereas Sh3.3 billion will be spent on the Blue Economy as an enabler for attaining food security. Of the food cash, the Treasury is allocated Sh500 million; Sh2.6 billion to Lands and Sh815 million to Regional and Northern Corridor department.  MANUFACTURING AND HOUSING Affordable Housing, in which President Kenyatta sought to construct 500,000 units, has been allocated Sh6.8 billion. Of this, Sh4.2 billion is for the National Treasury; Sh1.3 billion for Public Works department; Infrastructure (Sh705 million); Housing (Sh529 million) and Energy ministry (Sh29 million). The reduced budgetary allocation comes in the wake of the Jubilee administration abandoning some of the Big Four projects to raise cash for Covid-19. The countrywide rollout of UHC was affected by Sh9.4 billion funding cut while Housing lost Sh4.5 billion in changes which saw development budget reduced by Sh83 billion. Yatani has proposed Sh18.2 billion for the manufacturing sector to be shared by Energy ministry (Sh2.7 billion); Industrialisation department (Sh6.5 billion); Transport (Sh6.12 billion) and University education (Sh1.5 billion). Treasury has also proposed Sh756 million to the Infrastructure department for works at various industrial parks and Sh524 million to the Water ministry. Of the cash, about Sh312 million has been set aside for Regional and Northern Corridor department; Sh61 million for Public Works; and Sh35 million for ICT works. The CS, in justifying the allocation, said, “The Covid-19 outbreak has necessitated the inclusion of spending requirements not initially anticipated in the 2019-20 budget.” He added that despite the virus affecting the budget, the expenditure priorities for 2020-21 will be on programmes aligned to the Big Four agenda. “The planned expenditures prioritise employment creation, youth empowerment, UHC, manufacturing, and food security.” Budget experts have cast doubt on the viability of the plan President Kenyatta seeks to hinge his legacy. The Parliamentary Budget Office said slow implementation of the projects continues to be a hindrance to the country’s growth. “It should be noted that the projects have struggled to take shape and many targets yet to be achieved,” the PBO said in their analysis of next year’s budget. They cited reductions affecting the manufacturing sector and food security agenda which is beset with locust invasion, weak marketing strategies and no subsidy for farmer inputs. “Big Four may, therefore, not be a reliable driver of economic growth in the coming financial year,” the report reads. Apart from the budget cuts, the coronavirus pandemic and the politics of 2022 have presented chances of the Big Four turning into a pipedream. Edited by R.Wamochie