A man who raped a woman in Bomas forest in Nairobi has been jailed for 10 years by a Kibera court. Morgan Mason was convicted by senior principal magistrate Esther Boke after the prosecution successfully proved the case against him. The prosecutor told the court that Mason was a frequent offender and a tough sentence was ideal for him to reform. “Your honour, I request this honourable court to hand the suspect a deterrent sentence so that he can serve as an example to other people with similar behaviour,” prosecutor Nancy Kerubo said. Kerubo said Mason was serving a five-year term for attempting to rape another woman in the same forest. The accused confirmed to the court through video that he was serving a five-year sentence since 2018. “Your honour, I was convicted in October 2018 to serve five years in jail,” he told the court after the prosecution asked him to clarify for how long he had been in jail since the first sentence. Mason was charged with raping a 45-year-old woman on February 5, 2017 at Bomas forest. He was also charged with unlawfully touching the private parts of the woman, but denied both charges. The complainant testified in court that she was fetching firewood when the accused person grabbed her in the forest and raped her. "I was busy fetching firewood in Bomas forest when suddenly he came and grabbed me inside the forest and warned me that if I screamed he was going to kill me," she ssaid. She testified that the accused person after raping her ran away. "I managed to scream and since the place was next to an AP camp, they came to my rescue. Other people also came and the officers advised me to report the matter at Lang'ata police station, which I did," she said. She sought medication at a private hospital. "I reported the matter and was advised to seek medication, which I did at Tumaini Medical Centre at Kibera and using their ambulance they transferred me to Nairobi Hospital where I was treated," she told the court. She said after some days, some boys in the forest informed her that a man had been arrested and was at the police station for attempting to rape a woman. When she went to confirm at the police station, she found out it was the accused person who had raped her. "I rushed to the AP camp and I looked at the suspect it was him. I had interacted with him on many occasions," she said. She said Mason had once suggested to her to go deeper into the forest for firewood but she refused. The accused denied committing the offense. He said he was a family man and the breadwinner and that his father had died and his mother was poor. But Boke ruled that the offense was serious and needed a serious sentence. Edited by Henry Makori