Some companies that made millions from the Jubilee Party during the 2017 campaigns could have evaded taxes, a scrutiny of documents suggests. Documents seen by the Star show that one of the firms, paid Sh361 million, is not in the Registrar of Companies' records. Bora Ubora Ltd, whose ownership is linked to KICC boss Nana Gecaga, a niece of President Uhuru Kenyatta might not be registered. A search on the E-Citizen portal returns nil results. In addition, invoices to the Jubilee Party by Bora Ubora seen by the Star have no VAT number — an irregularity for businesses. The invoices also do not show whether the amounts indicated include taxes. Sources within the Jubilee Party told the Star that allies of Deputy President William are keen to see if any action will be taken against the company. The documents also show that Bora Ubora got the tenders to supply the materials but outsourced them from other companies. This has raised questions on the possibility of public funds being used improperly by the Jubilee Party without accountability. Registrar of Political Parties records show that the ruling party received Sh386.2 million from the Political Parties Fund between 2016 and 2018. The party received Sh145,911,499 during the 2016-17 financial year and Sh240,375,303 in the next. Bora Ubora had its monies wired to its account at NCBA Bank from the Jubilee Party's account at Equity Bank. Email trails show that the firm pressured the party to make the payments before all documents had been received. The correspondences are mainly from  Selina Pratt, another niece of the President, and copied to Nana and her brother Jomo Gecaga. Jomo is President Uhuru Kenyatta's private secretary. Uhuru is the Jubilee Party Leader and allies of Deputy President William Ruto have cited a conflict of interest in the transactions. In the emails, a Jubilee official Joseph Mulili insists on documentation but party treasurer Wambui Gichuru overrules him. One conversation between Mulili and Wambui shows that the Jubilee Party used suspicious means to satisfy the law. Some Jubilee politicians have raised queries on how the party spent its resources as there are no available audited account reports. Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wa, who also chairs the National Assembly Budget Appropriations Committee, said the party has not provided audited accounts in three years. Jubilee secretary general Raphel Tuju has insisted that the party has been following the law on all its transactions. But his deputy Caleb Kositany has raised the issue of the lack of audits. "We receive money from the taxpayer and therefore, we should be audited as per the law," Kositany said. The Star established that the party has not filed any audited accounts with the Registrar of Political Parties since the elections. The controversy on the 2017 spending is just one in the latest fights between the Uhuru and Ruto camps. Uhuru's allies are working to take over the party and prepare for the next elections without Ruto in the picture. But Ruto's allies want to ensure that he retains control of the party, which many say was his idea of ensuring he easily succeeds Uhuru after their 2013 coalition. From the Jubilee Party's bank statements there are other payments that raise questions. For instance, there are payments amounting to Sh33 million that was wired to Visual Engineering Services Ltd in the UK from Equity Bank to Lloyds Bank. There is also spending of Sh31 million from the Jubilee account for membership smart cards. The smart cards were a point of controversy during the 2017 party primaries after most politicians rejected their use. They prevailed.