Embattled Youth Enterprise Development Fund boss Josiah Moriasi wants YEDF board cited by court for contempt after he was thrown out of the office. On Thursday morning, he was not allowed into his office and his official vehicle was confiscated. He, however, said a court reinstated him and issued an order to that effect. Last month, the board voted five to four to send Moriasi packing, but on Monday, Justice Hellen Wasilwa barred the board from terminating Moriasi's contract or dismissing him before his case is concluded. The case was filed by lawyer Okong'o Omogeni. Through Omogeni, Moriasi said the board acted in breach of the court order. "We are filing for contempt,” said Omogeni, who is the Nyamira senator. The court had ordered the board be served with the application. It set May 13 as the hearing date or soon thereafter as may be directed by the deputy registrar. Meanwhile, MPs from Nyamira, led by North Mogirango MP Joash Nyamoko, have protested the sacking of Moriasi. They said he improved the image of the fund, which was previously mired in scandals. "During his tenure, Moriasi has cleaned the fund, which was previously engulfed in scandals. We are reading mischief in his sacking and we are demanding answers. The State Corporations Advisory Committee in the last two years gave him a score of 86 and 89 per cent respectively,” Nyamoko said. Nyamoko, his Kitutu Masaba counterpart Shadrack Mose and West Mogirango’s Vincent Kemosi told the board to respect court orders and allow Moriasi back in the office. "We are seeing a situation where public servants from Kisii and Nyamira counties are being hounded out of office. This is totally unacceptable,” said Nyamoko, a Jubilee Party MP. He has written to the parliamentary committee for Social Welfare and Labour demanding a statement on the issue. Moriasi is his constituent. Nyamoko accused the board of ignoring the CEO’s performance evaluation in considering his request for contract renewal. It blatantly ignored advice from the Inspectorate of State Corporations and the National Treasury on the procedures of reappointment of public agency CEOs, he added. Moriasi’s initial contract expired in October last year and the newly appointed board renewed his contract for six months to evaluate him. On April 28, the board held a telemeeting where five board members voted against the renewal of Moriasi’s team, while four voted in his favour. ICT, Innovation and Youth Affairs CS Joe Mucheru named Benson Muthendi as acting CEO against the board’s recommendation for the appointment of Judy Kimeto, a lending and investments manager. "In due consideration of historical issues that are under investigations, I hereby appoint Benson Muthendi as the acting CEO,” said Mucheru in a letter to board chairman Victor Mwongera.