Eggs... they are tiny but can wonders in more ways than one. Eggs have always been a go-to meal in many homes across the world. From baking to boiling to frying, eggs can be made in so many ways and during this period when we are stuck at home and life is becoming expensive, eggs are literally coming in handy. You might think that you only need to boil or fry an egg but there are so many ways you can enjoy your eggs. 1. Boiled This is the most common means of making an egg. In Kenya, boiled eggs are quite treasured and they can be found in every corner you turn to. There are so many vendors on the streets selling boiled eggs then to add some flavour to it, they incoporate  some kachumbari, some salt and some ketchup or pepper (optional). This is one way to make your egg, a method that is not about to go away anytime soon. You don't have to visit your street vendor to get this egg. You can do it at the comfort of your home. All you have to do is put them in a sufuria with boiling water and give them a few minutes depending on how ready you want them. You are good to go and you can even make your own kachumbari to go with them. 2. Sunnyside up This is one way of making eggs that many people are not into. Most people prefer their eggs well made. But for the sunny side up, the yolk is usually not well done. With this one, the egg white is usually well done but the yolk seems uncooked but some people prefer their eggs cooked in that manner. Sprinkle some flavour on your eggs with pepper and salt and you are good to go. 3. Fried Another common way of making eggs is frying them. You only need some oil, salt and pepper. Many people prefer having this type of egg with bread especially in the morning, although there's no specific time you can have this delicacy. Put some oil in a pan, once hot put in your eggs and flip them whenever they are ready on every side. You can serve with bread, some avocado or kachumbari and a cup of hot tea. 4. Scrambled To some, scrambled eggs are heaven-sent. They come through when you don't have beef, chicken or fish. They act as a substitute and has worked wonders for so many people. There are people who prefer just using oil and some salt, while others like to make it spicier by adding some spices, tomatoes and onions. Either way, it's bound to make a tasty meal. Try it with some greens, ugali, or any accompaniments of your choice. You will not be disappointed. You don't have to always use the same methods you are used to to make eggs. Try these suggestions. Also, share with us how you make your eggs. We might be impressed.