The Garissa assembly has formed an ad hoc committee to oversee the actions and measures taken by the county administration to tackle Covid-19. The team is required to monitor the provision of testing and medical equipment, including ventilators at the Garissa Referral Hospital, and the availability of isolation centres and ICU facilities. It is chaired by Mohamed Sheikh Ali. They will also assess the measures taken to ensure a continual supply of food and other essential commodities to the vulnerable communities. Speaking to the press in Garissa town on Monday, Ali (Abakaile MCA) said the committee will also delve into actions taken by the county administration to ensure protection, safety and well-being of healthcare service providers and other frontline workers. Last week, health workers protested against delayed salaries. They also lamented the inadequacy of personal protective equipment. “The committee will look into measures taken by the county government to enable the continuation of the service delivery to residents. We will be stepping up measures to sensitise and safeguard the population against the global pandemic,” Ali said. The committee is required to monitor and report to the assembly all the activities implemented by the executive and ensure funds set aside for the fight against the virus are prudently spent. They are expected to table a progress report within 14 days and thereafter table a progress report on a monthly basis. The final report will be presented after six months. On Saturday, Deputy Governor Abdi Dagane said the county government had enrolled 10,000 vulnerable households to be supported with relief food during the holy month of Ramadhan. He said the programme will incorporate flood victims and families whose livelihoods have been ruined by the Covid-19 pandemic. Dagane appealed to corporate entities, persons of goodwill and non-governmental organisations to donate funds and material support to the County Emergency Response Committee.  (Edited by F'Orieny)