 Bondo MP Gideon Ochanda has called for the establishment of an emergency response strategic grain reserve to help victims of disasters. Ochanda said while, the government has strategic grain reserves where cereals are sold to millers during drought or whenever there is a national shortage, there is no direct cushion for disaster victims. “The kind of strategic grain reserve we have is not very handy when it comes to disasters because the grains are for sale to millers, leaving the government with inadequate food reserves to immediately respond in cases of emergencies and disasters,” he said The legislator attributed the government’s slow response in assisting floods victims to lack of such a reserve. He spoke at Usenge chief's camp in his constituency during the distribution of food to flood victims on Tuesday. “Disasters will always be there with us no matter how well we plan. The government thus needs to have food reserves that can be distributed immediately to victims when disasters such as floods happen,” Ochanda said. The MP said flood victims who were left homeless following heavy rains have been living in primary schools for weeks with little or no support and exposed to the coronavirus. “For the first time, most parts of the country have had to deal with the double tragedy of coronavirus and floods at the same time. These are emergency situations where the government needs to show its muscle to help its people,” Ochanda said During the occasion, 400 bags of rice and other foodstuffs from the government were distributed to 82 households left homeless after their houses were submerged. Ochanda announced that his office had boosted the government donation by providing 100 bags of maize and 80 bags of beans. Bondo deputy county commissioner Tom Macheneri, who spearheads the distribution of donations to the victims, said there will be transparency in the process and that no deserving case will be left out. He warned all administrators charged with the distribution of government donations that they will have to carry their cross in case of any malpractice. Macheneri also cautioned beneficiaries against selling their share, saying the food is meant to sustain them and their families. Those found selling the items will face the law, he said. He also advised the public to be wary of the rising levels of water in Lake Victoria and asked those in the flood-prone locations to move to higher grounds.  Edited by EKibii