Flooding and Covid-19 restrictions create perfect conditions for locusts to multiply. Experts have warned that millions of people in East and Central Africa already suffering due to flooding and the impact of Covid-19 are at risk of increased hunger and poverty from locust invasion. Oxfam International said the region should brace for the latest generation of locusts which are due to hatch in June when crops are to be harvested. A statement released on Thursday said that the highest rainfall in 40 years in parts of the region has caused severe flooding which has killed over 400 people, displaced half a million others and destroyed crops and livelihoods. "The heavy rains, exacerbated by climate change, have also created the perfect conditions for the breeding of locusts, raising fears that the swarms could be 400 times larger than the original swarms,” the statement reads. “The locust outbreak, already the biggest in 70 years, has decimated thousands of hectares of crops throughout larger swathes of the region, especially Kenya, Ethiopia and Somalia.” Oxfam’s Regional Director in the Horn, East and Central Africa Lydia Zigomo said restrictions imposed by governments to contain the coronavirus are also hampering efforts to stop the spread of locusts. She explained that stocks of pesticides are dwindling as border closures strangle the supply chain and overnight curfews hamper spraying in key breeding areas. The floods and the new wave of locusts will lead to increased food shortages in a region where over 33 million people are already severely food insecure. At the same time, the economic fallout from governments’ efforts to contain the pandemic is likely to push millions of people further into poverty as there are little or no social safety nets to protect them. “The region is facing multiple concurrent crises – each compounding the other and making it more difficult to tackle and contain. Together, they form a lethal combination that threatens to increase hunger, poverty and suffering for millions of the most vulnerable people,” Zigomo said. “In a grim coincidence, the recent rains have created the perfect breeding conditions for locusts while restrictions introduced to contain the coronavirus have hampered efforts to control their spread,” she added. She said they have also developed a mobile GPS app that allows community volunteers to record data on local locust infestations which are then shared with government response teams. Last week, the World Bank announced $500 million in grants and low-interest loans to help countries in Africa and the Middle East combat the impact of locusts. Kenya and Uganda have received large loans from the International Monetary Fund to support their responses to Covid-19, including the expansion of social protection programmes. Oxfam is calling on more international donors to support governments in the region by providing immediate assistance, including increased cash grants, to help the poorest and most vulnerable people survive the multiple crises. Zigomo said, “Cash grants and other forms of social protection can play a huge role in protecting vulnerable people, and they are a critical and urgent response to this triple crisis. Donors must support governments to expand their social protection systems.” Edited by R.Wamochie