@Yobramos4 A lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus in Old Town has elicited tension and confusion in the Mombasa division. Police enforcing the Wednesday order by Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe arrived in numbers, evoking fear among residents. Mombasa recorded 32 new cases of the virus on Wednesday, mostly from Old Town. Groups of residents sporadically gathered along the Abdel Nasser Road in Bondeni, fuelling rumours of a stand-off with police. On the other side of the road, which is not under containment, crowds waited to witness what would transpire. County commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo patrolled the area with heavy security in tow. Leaders, who were also caught unawares, expressed mixed opinions over the containment. Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir on Wednesday told the Star he was not consulted over the order. “I don’t know how they will implement the order. Mvita constituency is small and there are a lot of alleys,” Nassir said. Nassir said the confusion over the area under containment is because the security personnel did not consult. “If it is Old Town as an area, it includes Bondeni area and reaches Allidina High School. The area under containment is just a part of Old Town, not Old Town,” Nassir said. On Wednesday evening, Kitiyo showed journalists the area under containment. He said Bondeni is not under containment. However, the Star established on Wednesday evening and Thursday that police officers were manning areas in Bondeni and next to Allidina. Some residents of those areas complained they were being unfairly restricted. “I stay in Bondeni. There are police officers all over here. As far as I know, this area was not marked for containment but we have been forced to close our shops and stay inside,” Salim Adhe said. Kitiyo said Wednesday that shops selling essential goods will still operate during the 15-day containment period. On Thursday morning, Bondeni residents opened their shops at around 6.30am. However, when the Star returned to the areas around 10am, most of them had been shut. Old Town MCA Murfad Amur told the Star the containment directive is a result of indiscipline on the part of residents. Amur said since it is an order from the national government, there is little the local leaders can do. “If it was only Old Town, we would say were are being unfairly targeted. But Eastleigh is also locked down,” Amur said. Our people sometimes act without thinking about the consequences of their actions, he said. The MCA said Old Town residents are suffering because some among them act before they think. Kenya National Chambers of Commerce and Industry Mombasa chairman Mustafa Ramadhan said Old Town has suffered a hat-trick of disruptions to business. The coronavirus pandemic affected supply chains and spending power, the curfew followed and now the lockdown. He said the Ramadhan period is the peak season for businesses in Old Town as people troop into the area for their Eid shopping. “Traditionally the businesses stayed open till midnight to accommodate all the people shopping for new clothes, furniture and fittings,” Ramadhan said. The businesses make more profit in these 15 days than in any six months combined, he said. “This year they had revised their projections and were working with the limited hours due to the curfew and were managing numbers allowed into their premises as per the guidelines because of the reality of the effects of Covid-19,” Ramadhan said. He said the lockdown is the last nail in the coffin for any business this season. “This season covers their overheads for most of the year and I see a situation where businesses will remain with a lot of unsold stock, unpaid loans, rents and salaries,” The KNCCI official said. He called on business to evolve because the pandemic has fundamentally changed how things are done. “Businesses must adapt to the new normal to survive, with online shopping options and delivery services for example,” he said. Ramadhan called on the government to put in measures to cushion small businesses from the effects of Covid-19. They need help to stay afloat and keep their employees at work, he said. (edited by o. owino)