The country’s economic recovery plan will depend on the demands of the Public Health Act and the relationship between current containment measures and the regulatory environment. Interior CS Fred Matiang’i on Wednesday said based on the revelation by the World Health Organization that the coronavirus could become endemic in the human population, containment of the virus is no longer a government only affair. The CS reiterated the government’s support of the private sector in optimising the effectiveness of the Covid-19 spread containment measures in the country. “Responsibility is going to be shared and this is now shifting to individuals and corporates. It is important that the private sector players identify protocols they can effectively enforce themselves,” Matiang’i said. “This is the right time to think about pumping more resources into training and capacitating regulatory agencies in the private sector in anticipation of the possibility of living with the Covid-19.” The CS asked the private sector representatives to formally present their proposals to the command centre on the pandemic by Tuesday next week for consideration ahead of the finalisation of the recovery plan. Speaking during the meeting, Trade CS Betty Maina lauded various private sector initiatives in partnership with the government towards mitigating the effects of the pandemic adding that the proposals will be factored into the plan. She also said the government will continue supporting the sector to cushion them from the shocks of the pandemic. The National Treasury has already disbursed Sh10 billion to the Kenya Revenue Authority to effect the new VAT refund scheme, with more than Sh30 billion having been released to settle pending bills to keep enterprises afloat in the face of the crisis. The private sector has been lauded for being instrumental in the war against the pandemic with many players chipping in with cash donations and in-kind contributions to the Covid-19 Emergency Response Fund. Other stakeholders are directly and indirectly involved in the distribution of essential supplies and other initiatives with a view to strengthening healthcare capacity. Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi said such initiatives should be sustained alongside other containment measures to effectively manage a possible surge in the number of infections. With approximately 5.1 million jobs currently at high risk of being lost, the private sector has undertaken to implement general standard operating procedures concurrently with sector-specific measures. Stakeholders have fronted various requests for considerations with a commitment to ensure health and safety upon return to work. Industry players led by Kenya Private Sector Alliance CEO Carole Karuga applauded the economic and health measures introduced so far to prevent the further spread of the virus. They acknowledged the support provided by the government towards business sustainability and continuity. Edited by R.Wamochie