President Uhuru Kenyatta on Saturday outlined an eight-point economic stimulus programme to help keep the country afloat even as the coronavirus pandemic ravages lives globally. Uhuru said the first element of the Sh53.7 billion package will focus on infrastructure. A total of Sh5 billion has been set aside to hire local labour in this undertaking The second element is on education. Soon we will come out with plans to ensure children can carry on with their education, the President said. "The government has set aside Sh6.5 billion to hire 10,000 teachers and 1,000 ICT interns to support digital learning," Uhuru said. The third element on the programme will target small and medium enterprises whose liquidity has been adversely affected. Uhuru said the government has allocated Sh10 billion to fast-track payment of outstanding VAT refunds and other pending payments. The fourth element is the hiring of another 5,000 healthcare workers with a diploma or certificate qualifications for a year. "Further, we will set aside Sh.1.7 billion for expansion of bed capacity in our public hospitals," President Kenyatta said. The government has also prioritised Sh3 billion for the supply of farm inputs targeting to cushion 200,000 small-scale farmers. Uhuru allocated Sh.1.5 billion to assist horticultural and flower producers to continue accessing international markets. To mitigate the impact of deforestation and climate change and to enhance the provision of water facilities, the government has allocated Sh850 million to rehabilitate wells, water pans and underground tanks in arid and semi-arid areas. A further Sh1 billion has been set aside for flood control measures; and another Sh540 million for the Greening Kenya Campaign. A total of Sh2 billion will be set aside to support renovation of facilities and the restructuring of business operations by actors in the tourism industry. "In addition to this, funding will also be set aside to support the operations of our premier hospitality institution Utalii College to guarantee the steady supply of well-trained hospitality professionals," he said. Uhuru said the government will also engage 5,500 community scouts under the Kenya Wildlife Service at Sh1 billion. Additionally, support will be made available to approximately 160 community conservancies at Sh1 billion, President Kenyatta said. Edited by R.Wamochie