The High Court has stopped Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji from prosecuting an advocate linked to the Sh63 billion Arror and Kimwarer dams scandal. Justice Mumbi Ngugi on Wednesday said advocates did not have special immunity if they committed a crime but there was a danger when a zealous prosecutor cast his net too wide and caught even those like Richard Malebe who only performed the basic professional function of facilitating the local registration of one of the companies allegedly involved in the dams scandal. Malebe was in 2014 instructed by KPMG-Kenya to provide legal and company secretarial services to one of its clients. KPMG wanted to register CMC Di Ravenna Kenya branch. Malebe claimed that his only involvement in the matters giving rise to his intended prosecution was the registration in Kenya of the foreign company. But the DPP asserted that Malebe was a director, company secretary and representative of the company and that he knew all the activities which are the subject matter of the criminal case. The DPP's case is that investigations established Malebe, former Treasury CS Henry Rotich, PS Kamau Thugge and others intended to steal over Sh80 billion through those projects. The projects had been initiated on December 19 when Kerio Valley Development Authority, under the Ministry of Environment, invited bidders to tender for several projects.  They were awarded to CMC. Justice Ngugi said Malebe’s involvement with the company was only at the registration level. She said the DPP in seeking to prosecute Malebe was identifying him with the acts allegedly committed by the company that he had several years prior to the perpetration of the alleged offences. She observed a constant refrain by the DPP that CMC Di Ravenna Kenya branch was Malebe's company yet all the material before the court pointed to a contrary position. “Had Malebe been disclosed in the statutory forms as a director and local representative of the said company, or other evidence such as account opening forms which demonstrated that he was indeed a director, this court would have had no hesitation in saying DPP has a factual foundation that should be left to the trial court,” she ruled. Edited by Henry Makori