Most hotels and restaurants in the North Rift have resumed operations in blatant disregard for Health ministry regulations, authorities say. The situation has raised fears that Covid-19 could spread massively and turn the region into a hotspot. Life has returned to near-normal following the government's directive that allowed the facilities to reopen after meeting set conditions, among them having their workers tested for the virus. In Eldoret, Kapsabet, Kitale, Iten and other towns in the region, however, most restaurants have yet to comply. Only a few are using thermoguns to screen customers. Again, the social distancing situation in most joints is a textbook example of noncompliance. The towns have also witnessed increased activity and a population surge. Unlike two weeks ago, Eldoret and other major towns are now experiencing heavy traffic jams, indicating a more than 50 per cent return to normal business. That means half of the people who had kept indoors as advised by the government have opted to resume normal operations. Governors, led by Jackson Mandago of Uasin Gishu, have warned residents against resuming their normal lives at a time when Covid-19 is still a threat. “We urge residents of the entire region to fully adhere to Covid-19 control measures and stop adopting a casual business-as-usual approach to the situation. The virus is clearly within this country and it's not time to take things lightly," said Mandago, who is also the chairman of the North Rift Economic Bloc. Uasin Gishu county commissioner Abdrisack Jaldesa said Covid-19 response teams would move to ensure all residents and institutions fully adhere to control measures as set by the government. “Hotels must meet the guidelines given by the ministry, failing which the owners will be arrested and prosecuted. We have sent out teams to inspect the hotels and ensure they are fully complying," he said. He said the reopening of restaurants was not a signal to a return to normalcy and warned residents of Eldoret to stop illegal gatherings, which go against the social distancing requirements. Uasin Gishu Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno said the county and the national government will continue to assist vulnerable families, hence there is no need for residents to adopt a casual approach to the disease. Meanwhile, police stations in Eldoret and other parts of the North Rift have been supplied with adequate protective equipment, including masks, to help officers in enforcing regulations in dealing with Covid-19. Uasin Gishu police commander Johnstone Ipara said police stations received the protective gear as donations from well-wishers.  The Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital has given out thermoguns to police stations for use to screen temperatures. Ipara said all officers must use masks while on duty.  (Edited by F'Orieny)