Garbage collection in Nyeri could be privatised if plans by the county assembly are effected. The county assembly’s Environment Committee chairman Watson Weru told the Star on Monday that the move will streamline solid waste collection in the county. The Karatina Town MCA said garbage heaps strewn all over Nyeri towns have been an eyesore. Some areas in Nyeri town such as King’ong’o and Kamakwa are in pathetic states following non-collection of garbage. Two weeks ago, Konyu MCA Eric Wamumbi barred county government trucks from offloading refuse at the Karindundu dumpsite in Mathira. The move has left Nyeri town without a place to dump its garbage. The town has been without a dumpsite after the one at the Asian Quarters was rehabilitated for a Sh600 million bus terminus. “We are looking for a solution to this problem and on Tuesday this week, we shall meet with a view of coming up with a motion that will see the privatisation of solid waste collection in towns in Nyeri county,” he said. Weru said they will involve Environment CEC Beth Karimi to ensure that funds are set aside in the 2020-21 budget to cater for the garbage collection. The county has been collecting garbage in some areas that are worst-hit and taking it to Gikeu dumpsite in Karima, Othaya. But the dumpsite cannot take in all the garbage from Nyeri town because it is small, he said. Weru said the county assembly had passed a budget of Sh20 million to buy land to set up a landfill in Kieni and Tetu subcounties but residents opposed the plan. “In Blue Valley in Nyeri town, the county has a four-acre piece of land but residents have opposed any plans to turn it into a dumpsite although they are the ones suffering for lack of garbage collection services,” he said. He said the county is looking for dumpsites elsewhere subject to approval by the National Environmental Management Authority. In August last year, the then Environment CEC Fredrick Kinyua told the Star that if the land would have been procured, the county would have come up with a proper solid waste management plan. Kinyua said the executive had requested the county assembly to allocate funds for the purchase of machinery required for waste separation and recycling. Nyeri county generates about 150 tonnes of waste per day. More than 50 per cent of the waste collected is usually organic and can be turned into manure. Kinyua said that the 50 per cent (75 tonnes) can be recycled and used as manure to boost food production. (edited by o. owino)