The Kenyan Premier League governing council is set to convene a meeting in the course of the week to discuss the way forward after the government extended the set restrictions for another three weeks in a bid to contain the coronavirus pandemic. KPL's bid to have the 2019-2020 season matches played to completion or have their way, suffered yet another blow after President Uhuru Kenyatta extended the restrictions last week —including the suspension of sporting activities, public gatherings and cessation of movement in and out of Nairobi. KPL has been battling to reverse the decision by Football Kenya Federation to conclude the season without their consent. Their pursuit was boosted after Chemelil Sugar moved to the Sports Disputes Tribunal seeking to revoke FKF's verdict which the court temporarily suspended. The case is set to be mentioned on May 26. However, time seems to be running out for KPL  to oversee the remaining matches or declare their stance after  President Uhuru extended the restrictions by another 21 days. The body's chief executive officer Jack Oguda said the council will meet this week to deliberate on the way forward in respect to the directives from government and the limited time between now and the start of the new season. “The governing council is looking forward to convening a virtual meeting this week to determine the next course of action. I am not in a position to confirm our stance on the matter as the council will have the final say,” he said Meanwhile, Harambee Stars' goalkeeper Farouk Shikalo revealed that he was likely to miss out when Yanga resumes training courtesy of the closure of the border and lack of passenger flights. Shikalo, who plies his trade with record Tanzanian champions, said the club was keen to resume training but was uncertain of joining his teammates any time soon,  thanks to the tough measures put in by the Kenyan government. “ Yanga have said training could begin soon but I may miss out due to the strict guidelines. "The border is closed; there are no flights and worse still I am out of Nairobi which means I can't make my way to the city. "Majority of the international players at Yanga were allowed to fly back to their countries and I think only local players will turn up for training in case they are allowed to. At the moment, I am keeping fit at home with the help of Kakamega Homeboyz goalkeeper trainer,” said the former Muhoroni Youth and Bandari man         