A campaign demanding the inclusion of women’s human rights to health in the post Covid-19 agenda has been launched. The Collaboration for Women in Development (CWID) and Global Women Network for Reproductive Rights now want inclusion of gender and women’s sexual and reproductive health and rights under essential services. In a statement marking the May 28 commemoration of the international day of action for women’s health, CWID Executive Director Betty Sharon, said they have collaborated with over 28 international, regional and national organizations in an effort to mobilize women all over Kenya to be part of the movement. “We call on members, allies, partners, as well as the general public to become part of the movement and join the efforts to mobilise, promote, defend and demand women’s Sexual and Reproductive Health and Rights (SRHR),” said Sharon. Sharon said adolescent girls are less likely to access sexual and reproductive health care, in the wake of Covid-19, thus endangering their lives. The Pwani Gender Based Violence Network coordinator, said such girls cannot access modern contraception, and skilled assistance during pregnancy and childbirth. “It is unfortunate that 33 years after international women’s health meeting in Costa Rica, the full realisation of all women’s SRHR remains far from being addressed," she said. "Women’s health has often been reduced to a limited understanding of maternal health, overlooking the actual needs of all women in their diversities even in the time of outbreaks.” Sharon expressed the need to hold governments accountable to their existing commitments, and ensure that existing policies effectively guarantee and support women’s choices and rights post Covid-19. “Cases of sexual and domestic violence including homicide are escalating in the country amid outbreaks.  In spite of these realities, there is a lack of meaningful commitment on the part of the government to address women`s needs,” she added. The official said challenges border on ensuring universal access to contraceptives and prevention of sexual violence, as well as comprehensive sexuality education for young people and budgetary allocation for other critical SRHR issues. “Evidence shows differential SRHR realities of women and girls in vulnerable situations such as young, single or unmarried women, older women, women of diverse sexual orientations and gender identities, indigenous women, widows, women living with HIV, sex workers, migrant women and women living with disabilities,” Sharon added.