 Muslims in Lamu have been urged to avoid eating from the same plate as is the norm during Ramadhan to avoid contracting coronavirus. Coast Interfaith Council of Clerics chairperson Mohamed Abdulkadir said in Lamu town on Thursday that regional clerics had resolved to encourage the faithful to follow the laid down precautionary measures against Covid-19, especially social distancing. Muslims are on a 30-day fasting period known as Ramadhan. The fasting lasts from a specified time in the morning until evening when the faithful take a break to share trays of food with family and friends. After breaking the fast, Lamu Muslims always congregate in public places to share food. Clerics and leaders are, however, discouraging the age-old tradition until the coronavirus contagion is defeated. The announcement against sharing food has been made in mosques and other public places. Food should for the time being be eaten in own houses. “This is Ramadhan like no other. For our own sake, we are going to do things we never did before. We will have to move away from the norm just to stay safe during these Covid-19 times. "People should break the fast in their homes. Don't share plates of food in public. It’s the easy way to get infected or spread the virus,” Abdulkadir  said. Lamu is one of the few counties yet to record any case of the coronavirus. Abdulkadir said residents should not invite friends and family members from other counties to avoid transporting the virus to the region. “Let’s not invite people to our houses to avoid unnecessary crowds. It’s not selfishness. We should all understand that these are dangerous times. Hopefully, the situation will be back to normal during the next Ramadhan,” he added. County assembly leader of majority Abdalla Baabad reiterated the need for people to avoid sharing utensils during Ramadhan as anyone could be infected and transmit the disease on such occasions. Baabad cautioned politicians against visiting homes in the guise of distributing aid especially to the elderly as they are the most vulnerable to Covid-19. “In Lamu we are known for our hospitality. We interact with everybody and eat together among other things especially during Ramadhan. I am, however, urging people to change. "We can’t do normal things at this time. Let's overcome coronavirus then our lives will go back to normal,” he said. - mwaniki fm