Yes... you have to stay at home so as to stay safe and reduce the spread of the coronavirus in the country. Many people end up bored staying in the same space every day, but there's no other way. You want to visit your favourite restaurant and indulge in the best meals they have to prepare, but that's not possible at this time. Firstly, because many eateries are still closed despite the government allowing them to open under strict rules. Secondly, your pocket may not allow you to eat out as much as you'd like, what with the tough economic times occasioned by the pandemic - including salary cuts and job losses. Don't fret though. You can still entertain your taste buds with other affordable delicacies. Here are a few affordable meals you can try out: 1. Egg curry Who said that eggs should only be boilde? There are so many ways you can make a curry using eggs. The basic essentials are tomatoes, onions and spices. With that, you can make your own version of an egg curry and serve it with rice, ugali, mashed potatoes or chapati. You can pick your poison. 2. Omena This is one meal that many people have not embraced. The tiny fish are full of nutrients and can be substituted for the normal tilapia you are used to. Boil those bad boys and let them dry then fry with some onions, garlic and or ginger and make sure sure that they are dry. Then add tomatoes or tomato paste and any spices. You are good to go. 3. Chapati and beans This is a popular meal and many indulge in it. If you can afford unga ya ngano (wheat flour) then make some chapatis or substitute if with ugali or rice. Now this is a delicacy that you don't want to miss. Try it. 4. Matumbo They say that these bad boys are of no value and that they don't add any nutrients .... But this is still an option. Try it and see how it goes. 5. Mtura This is a delicacy in most Kenyan streets and it is not about to stop anytime soon. Surprise your taste buds with something different. 6. KDF and uji If you are looking for some energy, KDF is your friend. This type of mandazi has received both criticism and praise all at the same time. If you're looking for a snack, then KDF is your friend.