The Mohammed Badi-led Nairobi Metropolitan Service could soon breathe a sigh of relief following the the National Treasury's proposal to allocate it Sh27.9 billion for the next financial year 2020-21. This would mean Badi's team would no longer depend on City Hall for budget allocation. Treasury CS Ukur Yattani proposed a Sh27.9 billion allocation to NMS; Sh9.32 billion for development and Sh18.6 billion for recurrent expenditure. Last week, Badi had raised concerns that service delivery in Nairobi may fall due lack of funds to carry out his mandate. He noted that the tussle over the approval of the budget between the county assembly and the county government of Nairobi has delayed the access of funds. These proposed allocations are contained in the Sh36.7 billion recurrent budget estimates amended that were submitted by the CS to the National Assembly for approval. In addition, the Badi-led team will also receive another Sh1.5 billion for the Mukuru Slums renewal projects that is set to kick off in the next financial year. The County Government of Nairobi  in 2018 declared Mukuru as a special planning area. In letter seen by the Star dated May 14, 2020,  Yatani explains proposed amendments were prompted because the Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua submitted the estimates for NMS after the Treasury had done its submissions to Parliament. “The Head of Public Service submitted the Budget Estimates for Nairobi Metropolitan Services (NMS) after our submissions to Parliament. In this regard we request for inclusion of NMS budget estimates in the National Government Budget under the Presidency,” reads the letter. The letter was addressed to the National Assembly Clerk Michael Sialai. CS Yattani is urging Parliament to amend earlier budget estimates the Treasury had submitted on April 29, 2020 to factor in funds allocated to NMS. For almost one month there has been a push and pull between the Executive and the assembly over the Supplementary Appropriation Bill, 2020 that was to allocate at least Sh15 billion to NMS. Governor Mike Sonko has refused to assent to the bill, stating that the assembly had allocated funds to functions that were not handed over to the national government. As a result, he sent back the bill with his amendments to be considered, but Speaker of the County Assembly Beatrice Elachi left out Sonko’s views sending the bill back to him. After seven days, the bill was gazetted, making it an Act. However, the Solicitor General red-flagged it, writing to the Government Printer advising it to be revoked. Last week on Monday, the Government Printer revoked the publication of the Nairobi City County Supplementary Act, 2020 following an advisory opinion from the Solicitor General. At this juncture, Governor Mike Sonko announced that the Executive will come up with a new Supplementary Appropriation Bill to ensure that operationalisation of NMS. Consequently, a section of Nairobi MCAs led by Matopeni MCA Abdi Guyo affirmed their support for the introduction of a new Supplementary Appropriation Bill.