ODM chairman John Mbadi has ruled out the possibility that the coalition between the Jubilee party and Kanu will negatively affect the close relationship between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. Mbadi said that the merger will instead strengthen the handshake which brought together the two leaders after the divisive 2017 general election. Speaking to K24 on Monday, Mbadi said that the agreement between ODM and Jubilee party was that each party should not dictate what the other party does. “If Jubilee decides to go to any merger with Kanu, they are perfectly in order because it is not part of our concern,” Mbadi said. He added that “Bringing more hands into Jubilee is helpful to the cause of both Jubilee and ODM.. at least for the two leaders who agreed to move this country forward. I don’t think as a party we feel threatened in any way with any arrangements that Jubilee gets into with any friendly party.” Mbadi was responding to the current turmoil inside the Jubilee house. He said that the Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen was behaving like a person who is against the government's decision. “Look at what is happening in the Senate. If you are a stranger in this country or a visitor in this country you will not know that Kipchumba Murkomaen is the Majority Leader,” Mbadi said. The Suba South MP added that the agreement between ODM and Jubilee was not about merging but to address and solve the problems that have been facing the country through the handshake. He, however, said that if Jubilee party would like to make a further arrangement with ODM ahead of the future elections, the party will discuss it. “I will not rule out any such possibility because political parties are formed to acquire power and to govern,” he said. Mbadi’s remarks come after talks of a possible coalition between Jubilee and Kanu after President Uhuru Kenyatta met with Kanu chair Gideon Moi. The president summoned Jubilee senators for a meeting at State House on Monday. The meeting is rumoured to be about changes in the Senate.