Baringo North residents have been asked to help search for the nine guns lost after police officers were swept away by raging River Suguta waters last Thursday. Seven officers died while five survived. The officers had 12 guns but only three have been recovered. Nine guns are still missing. The incident occurred when the driver of the Isuzu lorry they were travelling in attempted to cross the flooded river near Yatya in Baringo North at about 8pm. All the passengers aboard were Anti-Stock Theft (ASTU) officers from Chemoe camp and General Duty officers from Yatya police post. The survivors include Joseph Omboye, Andrew Menisa, Kingori Patrick and Cliff Nyakeniga. Those who died are Bernard Sigei, Frederick Ouko, Victor Omollo, Samuel Nyakundi, Tanui Kipsang', Noah Kipng’eno and Martin Naibei. The last body collected belonged to lorry driver Noah Kipng’eno. It was found trapped by roots at Ng’inyany Bridge in Tiaty subcounty on Monday evening. Six other bodies had earlier been collected near the scene along the flooded River Suguta in Kagir on Saturday. “We have managed to collect most of our weapons and now we request the members of public to assist us in searching for the missing ones,” Baringo police commander Robinson Ndiwa appealed to residents on Wednesday. He was addressing the public during the official closure of the five-day multi-agency retrieval mission in Kagir, Baringo North. Residents welcomed the request and immediately started looking for the lost guns. The area is inhabited by warring Pokot and Tugen pastoral communities and some residents fear the guns might land in the wrong hands. County commissioner Henry Wafula said it was unfortunate that seven officers lost their lives in the incident, saying it was extremely expensive to train a single police officer. Ndiwa lauded local divers, the Kenya Air force and Kenya Red Cross whose concerted efforts helped retrieve the bodies. Governor Stanley Kiptis condoled with the families of the fallen officers. “It is also saddening to us as a county to have lost such patriotic souls who were ready to protect the lives of our people and property,” Kiptis said. Edited by A.N