 Lifting of restrictions imposed by the Health ministry to curb the spread of coronavirus will be done in phases, Chief Administrative Secretary Mercy Mwangangi said on Thursday. She said the lifting of the restrictions will be gradual and based on science and information received from experts. Health director-general Patrick Amoth said there are countries that had lifted restrictions and within three to four days experienced an upsurge in case numbers, hence being forced to reintroduce the restrictions. The World Health Organisation on Wednesday warned that coronavirus is likely to stick with us for a while, much like HIV has, and that people may have to learn to live with it. WHO emergency director Mike Ryan warned against trying to predict when the virus would disappear. This comes even after the number of positive cases in the country jumped to 758 after 21 more cases were confirmed on Thursday. The new cases were from 1,486 samples tested in a day. The total number of tests conducted since the first case is now 36,918. "It is important to put this on the table: this virus may become just another endemic virus in our communities, and this virus may never go away," Ryan said during the briefing in Geneva, Switzerland. Ryan said that even if a vaccine is found, controlling the virus will require a massive effort. WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said it was still possible to control the virus, with effort. "The trajectory is in our hands, and it's everybody's business, and we should all contribute to stopping this pandemic," Ghebreyesus said. WHO epidemiologist Maria van Kerkhove said, "We need to get into the mindset that it is going to take some time to come out of this pandemic." In Nairobi, Mwangangi said local experts and scientists who are also doing modeling have reaffirmed the picture painted by WHO. “Indeed, this virus may be with us for a long time to come and therefore it requires us to maintain our current containment measures and we will have to ensure that we chart a way forward as to actually live with coronavirus,” she said. “Different countries are putting in place interventions as to how they continue with a new normal because it will never be back to the old days. This is a new normal and therefore the same measures are being evaluated within the country.” Measures like social distancing, hand-washing with soap and running water and regularly sanitising of the hands and wearing of face masks might remain in force for some time. The government will now have to evaluate how to maintain continuity of business while ensuring that there is social and physical distancing to be able to curb the rising cases of the virus. “In the 1980s, we were struggling with HIV/Aids and it had afflicted our country and the globe but we were able to learn how to mitigate this and how to live with it, live positively and actually flourish,”  Mwangangi said. On Thursday, three more people were discharged from hospital, bringing the total number of patients who have recovered from Covid-19 at 284. Two more died to raise the number of fatalities to 42.  Edited by P.O