The much-talked-about government of national unity is a waste of time and the people behind this proposal are out of touch with the concerns of the common man. A national government that encompasses all is usually entered into after a disputed election. While Raila Odinga disputed Uhuru Kenyatta’s victory after the 2017 polls, months later, Raila and Kenyatta shook hands to end the acrimony. This is when they should have proceeded to form a government of national unity. Secondly, why would Kenyatta form a government of national unity when his second and last term is coming to an end? Deputy President William Ruto has remained loyal and the fact that all Jubilee Party MPs both in the Senate and the National Assembly are still backing the government business defeats the purpose of the unity government. Had MPs stopped backing Jubilee, it would have made sense to form a coalition with other parties. Government of national unity went with the old constitution and we now have laws to guide the formation of the government. If Kenyatta is, indeed, tired of leading this country, he can equally resign and allow Kenyans to go for fresh elections. A government of national unity will kill the little hope we have in our fledgeling opposition. What Kenya is witnessing or about to witness is mismanagement of public trust. It will be politically suicidal for Raila to take up an offer from Kenyatta unless he wants to soil his legacy and plans to exit political stage with Kenyatta. It is unfortunate that the country has found itself in politics when Kenyatta should be leading the nation in fighting coronavirus. Kenyatta and his group in Jubilee should adhere to the rule of law both in his party and the Constitution we passed in 2010. It is understandable for the dynasties to feel bad because there is a likelihood of power changing hands from the big political houses, who want to continue lording it over us, to the generation of hustlers. Common Kenyans trying to make ends meet should not be recruited by the dynasties to fight their fellow hustlers. Khalende is a lawyer and a political strategist