The Intensive Care Unit that was built by the Murang'a county government in a record 21 days has opened its doors to patients. The unit located at the Murang'a Level 5 Hospital has 35 machines and is one of the biggest in the country. The facility was completed on May 1 but was handed over to the hospital on Tuesday after a blessing ceremony presided over by religious leaders. Governor Mwangi wa Iria said the facility will cater for the less advantaged who are unable to afford ICU services in private hospitals. He said it was unfortunate that so many people lose their lives after being turned away from private ICU facilities for lack of funds. The county chief said though the unit was established in preparation for Covid-19 patients, it will serve patients will other illnesses from the region. The county government, he said, will learn from other already functional ICU units in various hospitals to succeed. The governor had earlier indicated that he was seeking a partnership with Aga Khan University Hospital in Nairobi to enable the new unit to take off and maintain the required standards. "We decided to construct the facility on labour basis using county engineers to reduce the cost of the project," the governor said, adding that awarding a tender to a contractor would have cost much more. The county government will also expand oxygen production and theatre at the hospital to cover ICU needs. Wa Iria also announced county government plans to construct a 200-bed cancer hospital by the end of this year. He said the facility would be among the few cancer centres that offer in-patient cancer services. "Right now, most health facilities offer outpatient cancer services," he said. Wa Iria said the facility will have all the equipment required to treat all types of cancers and will be in a seven-storey building at the Murang'a Level 5 Hospital. “Whatever causes people to travel to India will be available in the hospital. Regardless of how much it will cost, we will find a way to procure the equipment,” the governor said. The facility will also be constructed using county engineers and local labour. He said the hospital has already been designed and is awaiting allocation of funds for construction to start. The governor lauded the county assembly for supporting his development agenda, saying many other counties would have wished to implement similar projects but are unable to due to infighting among leaders. Clerics praised the governor for establishing the ICU unit, saying it will improve health services in the county. Catholic Bishop James Wainaina said it was commendable that the ICU unit had been constructed in record time. ACK Bishop Timothy Gichere commended government leaders for the preparedness exhibited during the coronavirus pandemic. “We are grateful for the efforts being made by our leaders to fight the virus and protect Kenyans,” Gichere said.  Edited by A.N