Sofapaka president Elly Kalekwa has called upon Football Kenya Federation and the Kenyan Premier League to embrace dialogue in solving their dispute in regard to the 2019/20 season. The animosity between the two bodies escalated in the recent weeks after FKF concluded the elite league without consulting their counterparts, who are legally mandated to run it. FKF's move generated criticism from all quarters and Kalekwa believes the only way to strike a common ground is to engage KPL. KPL have tried to fight FKF's decision and even went to CAF to protest and seek guidance. Kalekwa, who heads the KPL marketing department, faulted Kandanda House for overstepping their mandate without proper consultations hence lowering the status of the biggest football competition in the country. The Congolese businessman said FKF acted in haste, disregarding the voices of clubs, KPL management and other relevant stakeholders. "I think a dialogue between the two bodies will solve their differences without necessarily going to court. FKF, whom we respect, should not have interfered with the running of the league without consultations," said Kalekwa. "Now that no one is keen to cede ground, I call upon them to engage online and get a solution and chart the way forward. Court cases may take long and interrupt the football calendar," he said Kalekwa revealed that concluding the league would translate to loss of millions invested by clubs and would paint a bad picture of football administration in the eyes of sponsors. He added that the decision had blocked a number of clubs from contesting for the title and escaping relegation across all leagues. "Clubs had invested millions in honouring matches and concluding the season means their efforts will go to waste. Others had a chance to win a trophy or escape relegation and ending the league without the blessings of the managers does not depict a good image in the eyes of potential sponsors," said Kalekwa. "With these wrangles, it will be difficult to convince sponsors to support the league in the subsequent seasons."