With Kenya entering into the third month since the first coronavirus was reported, the government on Saturday announced additional measures to contain the spread. President Uhuru Kenyatta in his sixth address announced a cessation of movement of persons and any passenger ferrying automobiles and vehicles into and out of the country through the Tanzania and Somalia international borders except for cargo vehicles with effect from Saturday midnight. The decision was arrived at after deliberations by the National Emergency Response Committee on Coronavirus and the National Security Council. “If we do not take additional precautionary measures and get even more serious in implementing existing guidelines, the number of people who will get sick and die is going to rise sharply,” Uhuru said on Saturday at State House.. In addition, the nationwide dusk to dawn curfew has been extended for a further 21 days up to June 6. The cessation of movement into and out of Nairobi metropolitan area, Mombasa, Kilifi, Kwale and Mandera counties has also been extended for a similar number of days Kenya has recorded an increase in the number of imported positive cases, especially from Somalia and Tanzania, an issue that has been of great concern. “All drivers of cargo vehicles shall be subjected to mandatory covid-19 disease testing and will be only be granted entry in the Kenya territory if they test negative,” Uhuru announced. Kenya has so far recorded 830 positive cases since the first case was reported in the country on March 13. The global figure as at Saturday stood at 4.7 million infections and more than 300,000 deaths. Three hundred and one patients have been successfully treated and discharged, while 50 people have died from Covid-19 Almost 30 per cent of the recorded deaths occurred at home. President Kenyatta noted that the country has witnessed increased imported cases among individuals crossing into the country through the borders. “These areas have become areas of grave concern,” he said. According to the data, among the positive cases registered in the country this week, 43 cases have recently crossed the border from neighbouring Somalia and Tanzania. Out these 14 were from Wajir, 10 from Isebania, 16 from Namanga border, two from Lungalunga and one at the Loitoktok, data as per Friday shows. This is a representation of almost a quarter of the 166 confirmed infections this week. In addition, 78 truck drivers, who are foreign nationals, were denied entry into the country at various border crossing points after testing positive for the virus. “If we had not undertaken this intervention, the imported cases through our borders would have today accounted for more than 50 per cent of the week’s infections.” The President noted that it is time for Kenyans to exercise self-responsibility by adhering to the measures laid down by the ministry of health, even as the virus continues to sweep across counties in the country. So far, 22 out of the 47 counties have at least reported a case each. “These numbers and the spread of infection clearly indicate that if no action is taken, all the gains already achieved in combating this pandemic will undoubtedly be lost,” he said. Uhuru referred to the virus as a brutal and unforgiving enemy at our wall, trying to gain entrance using every door and every window by asking every Kenyan to sneak him in to attack. “He multiplies his forces rapidly, with one infected person able to infect dozens of others if insufficient measures are in place.  Or if all of us do not take heed of the dangers and behave accordingly a lot shall be lost.” The President said the virus if given enough opportunities will cause havoc and destruction to families, children, parents, neighbours and friends by making use of the least aware to be a career to the most vulnerable in the society. Uhuru further said that despite the economy having being worst hit by the pandemic, and sectors that linked to foreign trade, travel and production are under intense stress the country will not be in a rush to ease the measures already put in place based on lessons learnt from other countries. For instance, countries such as Singapore, Germany and Ghana that had done extremely well initially, eased the containment measures and then suffered dangerous spikes in new rates of infections. The head of state, however, noted he dosen't forsee announcing a lockdown. “Even though the measures we are putting in place are inconvenient to all of us, the far worse outcome is for this pandemic to grow out of control.” He said that cities and countries where the disease raged out of control have suffered near economic collapse due to the terror and paralysis it causes. According to Uhuru, despite there being a national and global pressure to ease measures put in place, the NERC  has taken a close look at reopening processes globally and thinks it is not yet the time to do so. “I am as anxious as all of you, to get back to building this country.  However, we will only be able to do this the sooner we sharply suppress the growth of infections.”