There have been advancements in Technology for the visually impaired. It went from them using wooden sticks to magnetic walking sticks to help them move around. Today, there are glasses that will help the visually impaired or those with low vision able to see properly and without any assistance. One of the glasses is IrisVision which are highly innovative assistive technology solution. It features as electronic glasses for low vision where a smartphone mounted VR headset is used to capture the scene offering a magnified view to the user in the lenses. It also offers unmatched assistance in performing wide range of daily activities from simple tasks of reading books to watching TV and seeing the faces of your loved ones. It has a special type of magnification through its patented ‘Bubble View’ technology that offers an enhanced view of anything lying within the bubble, without losing the broader context of the surrounding. It also has the IrisVision Assistant that enables users to enjoy a ‘hands free’ experience by responding to voice commands for performing your desired actions. Iris Reader is another feature introduced to make it easy for the user to enjoy their favorite books, magazines or anything else they want to read. With the Optical Character Recognition techniques embedded in it, it will read your desired text out loud. Acesight is also another technology for the visually impaired being the latest wearable low vision aids, designed to help people with low vision conditions. It has the Augmented Reality technology which offers a HD display floating right before the users eyes. It provides up to 15X magnification while the wired controller allows users to customize the colors and contrast. It is designed to cater for the needs of people with visual acuity ranging from 20/100 to 20/800 as affected by a host of eye diseases like macular degeneration, glaucoma and diabetic retinopathy. It features a neat mode which is a minified image mode that shrinks the image down so that it fits within the user’s good central area of vision, allowing one to see the 45 degree field of view without having to worry about restricted field. esight electronic glasses are glasses that will help your loved one who is visually impaired to see their surrounding and people around him or her. It will also enable them to return to work and earn a living as well as engage in daily activities. It has a high speed and high definition camera that enables the wearer to see clearly by capturing everything they look at. The advanced algorithms which are medically validated optimize and enhance the footage enabling the user’s eyes see it in real time. With these glasses, the wearer will have a sense of independence since they will be in a position to carry out tasks on their own. It will improve their ability to see and make their life a happy one.