Anglican Church of Kenya head Jackson ole Sapit has warned the government against inhumane evictions of needy Kenyans. The archbishop lamented that such evictions are compounding the misery of many Kenyans. “We urge the government to be civil when evicting people and only if need be,” he said. "Evictions can wait, especially now when people are grappling with Covid-19 and floods. These evictions only expose more families to hopelessness and helplessness." Archbishop Sapit was speaking after delivering a sermon during the Sixth Sunday of Easter Service at the All Saints Cathedral, Nairobi. Despite Interior CS Fred Matiang’i promising a temporary reprieve from evictions, several families in Ruai were yesterday displaced after bulldozers razed their homes. Archbishop Sapit also condemned the human rights violations by certain police officers in enforcing the curfew and other Covid-19 prevention measures. “It is saddening that some members of the security agencies are causing avoidable deaths in enforcing the curfew. The police should avoid using unwarranted force in implementing the measures,” he said. Archbishop Sapit further backed President Uhuru Kenyatta’s decision to close Kenya’s border with Tanzania and Somalia. “The government should enhance and tighten border surveillance to ensure people crossing into the country are free from the virus,” Archbishop Sapit said. "We support the decision to close the border at Namanga and with Somalia because they were becoming red zones." He urged Kenyans to be patient with the government even after the extension of the curfew and cessation of movement in and out of five counties. “We encourage all of us to continue observing guidelines by the Ministry of Health and stay safe,” Archbishop Sapit said. "All the floods, Covid-19 and locust invasion will soon be over and we will emerge stronger." The government has been in public crosshairs following the evictions and displacement of hundreds of families in Kariobangi and Ruai areas in Nairobi.