Illegal dealing in blood and blood products will land you in jail for three years or cost you Sh1 million fine if MPs pass a proposed law. The tough measures in Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege's bill are meant to streamline blood donation in the country. The Kenya National Blood Transfusion Service Bill, 2020 makes any illegal blood deal an expensive affair. There have been complaints of dry blood banks in the country blamed on cartels that sell the life saving item. “The principal object of this bill is to provide for the regulation of the activities relating to blood donation, testing, processing, safeguarding, transfusion and quality control,” the bill says. “Any person, who collects, stores, issues, distributes or otherwise trades in blood or blood products in contravention of the provisions of this Act commits an offence and shall be liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding one million shillings or imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or both.” The same punishment will be meted out on any person engaged in blood transfusion services without a licence. “Any person who collects blood without the consent of the donor or, in the case of a minor, without the consent of their legal guardian, commits an offence and shall be liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding one million shillings or imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years, or to both.” The bill also criminalises trading in blood not obtained from licensed blood transfusion centres or hospital blood banks. Under the proposed law it will be an offence to use expired blood transfusion instrument to transfuse or extract blood from a donor. Chege chairs the National Assembly’s Health committee. The bill further seeks to establish Kenya National Blood Transfusion Service to succeed National Blood Transfusion Service. The new body will be tasked with co-ordinating and supervising blood transfusion related activities in the country. It will be mandated to set standards in respect of blood donor recruitment, collecting, testing, processing, storing, importing, exporting, issuing, distributing of blood and blood products as well as disposal of waste blood. The entity will be run by a board and a secretariat headed by a competitively recruited CEO. The bill spells out the rights and responsibilities of the donor, who must be properly counselled before blood is extracted. “A donor shall give a written and informed consent prior to donating blood on receiving information,” the bill reads. “A blood donor shall be provided with information in an understandable language regarding the completion of the donor questionnaire, blood collection procedure, tests to be conducted and results.”  Edited by - mwaniki fm 