Some residents of Sparki in Mombasa are up in arms over manholes and sewer lines left open by road contractors from the Kenya National Highway Authority. The road works along the Saba Saba-Makupa roundabout has taken slightly over two years to be completed. Shops, businesses, garages, petrol stations along the stretch from Saba Saba towards Makupa were forced to close during construction works. On Friday, the residents complained of manholes and sewer lines that have been open for the last four months. They are afraid of looming waterborne disease. Paul Macharia, the proprietor of Sparki Autospares, said he had been out of business for the last three months. “However, the contractor came and piled sand and stones next to my shop. They also broke a sewer line and a manhole that was directly in front of my shop,” Macharia said. The 20-feet deep manhole is posing a danger to residents and pedestrians who use the stretch. “I asked them to come and cover the manhole, which is part of the sewer system, but they have not responded. They placed an old tyre on the manhole instead,” Macharia said. Bryan Macharia said when it rained, the open trenches were flooded with water. “These floods pose a danger of an outbreak of waterborne disease. We called the contractor to come and help, but they never showed up,” he said. Simon, another resident in the area, said the trenches that were dug by the contractors have made the road impassable. “We cannot access our area. During the rains our houses are flooded because the drainage lines have been blocked by these deep trenches,” he said. Kenya National Highway Authority director general Peter Mundinia said the road works along the Saba Saba-Changamwe roundabout will be completed in the next two months. In a meeting with Mombasa politician Suleiman Shahbal, Mundinia said the delay was caused by the relocation of utilities at the Chamgamwe roundabout. The Makupa roundabout is also being rebuilt. Shahbal said he had met Mundinia to enquire about infrastructure projects in Mombasa. “I was specifically interested to push them to finish the road from Changamwe roundabout to Saba Saba which has taken almost two years and is seriously affecting the area with increased traffic and dust,” Shahbal said. (edited by o. owino)