 Bandits on Monday night ambushed Eastleigh village in Igembe Central, killing two people and stealing 25 cattle. They also shot six more animals. Residents are now calling on the government to disarm the bandits and restore peace, saying they have become a soft target for the attacks. Alternatively, they have told Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i to arm them so that they can defend themselves. Residents Elius Ntoinya and Charity Kaberia also lamented that roads in the area are in pathetic condition, making it hard to recover stolen animals. Ntoinya said the government was asleep and demanded the reopening of the region’s conservancy, saying it was helpful in the recovery of stolen livestock. "We don’t have guns and when we ask the GSU at Mariara for help, they tell us to follow our animals. Why disarm NPR whereas bandits are armed?” Ntoinya said. He accused area MP Kubai Iringo of disinterest in the plight of resident because "they do not have many votes." Area MCA Isaiah Kirimi accused police of laxity, saying they have suffered insecurity since independence, and indication of the government's unpreparedness to protect its people. “Why has the government allowed the bandits to have guns, whereas our National Police Reservist officers were disarmed? Issue guns to herders to protect themselves," Kirimi said. "The government has terribly failed. There is a challenge of dilapidated roads to aid recovery of stolen animals. I have no money for roads. I urge Governor Kiraitu Murungi to construct and upgrade roads,” the MCA said. Andrew Michubu, a local, called for justice to be served to those who were killed. Another resident, Joseph Kaunye, said they have become a soft target and bandit’s free market where they attack and steal animals at will. “Our animals have been stolen five times since the curfew came into force. They attacked around 11pm yesterday night,” Kaunye said on Tuesday. Kangeta senior chief Morris Kimathi, confirmed the killing of the two people aged 22 and 40. He said he was confident GSU officers will recover the stolen animals.  Edited by E.Kibii