Residents of Kalwal and Apuoche villagers in Ndhiwa constituency where a police officer was murdered have complained of harassment by security officers. The residents say security officers investigating the murder of constable Felix Yegon are using violence as they look for suspects. The officers have beat up innocent individuals and threatened youths they suspect might have killed their colleague. Yegon, who was attached to Kobama police post, was murdered last Wednesday by a mob when he accompanied a suspected criminal in the area. He was with his colleague William Ngeiywa when they were attacked with crude weapons. Ngeiywa and the suspect escaped. The two police officers in civilian clothing had accompanied the criminal who had gone to Kalwal village to look for his wife who ran away after a domestic dispute. On Thursday, the residents decried being hounded by security officers investigating the matter. “Several young men and innocent elderly people have been brutally beaten up. Elderly women are accused of hiding the young men,” one of the villagers said. The residents accused the police of terrorising innocent people in their investigations. “Some security officers tell residents they will face the music if they fail to produce suspects in the murder,” the resident went on. Speaking to journalists in Homa Bay town over the matter, Kwabwai MCA Richard Ogindo accused the security officers of driving residents away from their homes. “A lot of people nurse injuries and many families have abandoned their homes for fear of facing the wrath of the police. Criminals also take advantage to steal domestic animals in deserted homes,” Ogindo said. He said the officers violate the rights of residents who did not participate in the killing. He said innocent residents should be protected and not harassed. “I appeal to the police head office in Homa Bay to address the matter to prevent the suffering of more innocent members of the public,” he added. However, Homa Bay county police commander Esther Seroney said she had not received information about harassment by her officers conducting investigations. She said they had arrested two people in connection with the incident. “DCI officers are handling the case and currently I have not heard anybody harassed in the area,” Seroney said. Edited by Henry Makori