Early diagnosis and appropriate treatment of noncommunicable diseases must be a cornerstone of the Covid-19 response in Kenya, stakeholders in the health sector have said. The Health ministry, Kenya Cardiac Society and the NCD Alliance of Kenya want continuity in access to essential health services during ongoing coronavirus pandemic. They spoke during a stakeholder webinar co-organised by Pfizer’s Upjohn Division. Heart diseases, diabetes and cancers are still the leading cause of death worldwide. According to the Kenya Stepwise survey for NCDs, these diseases contribute over 50 per cent of inpatient admissions and 40 per cent of hospital mortality. The main types of NCDs are cardiovascular diseases, cancers, chronic respiratory diseases and diabetes. Mortality due to NCDs in Kenya ranges from 6.1 per cent to eight per cent, while autopsy studies suggest that more than 13 per cent of cause-specific deaths among adults could be due to the diseases. People living with NCDs as well as older persons above 60 years are more likely to be severely ill when infected with coronavirus disease. Stakeholders said that following the onset of the pandemic, there has been a significant drop in hospital visits due to fear of contracting the virus. The negative consequences of this have a greater impact among people living with NCDs who need long-term follow up and medication. They said many patients may not continue with their routine treatment and will be unable to adequately manage their conditions at home. Dr Ephantus Maree said the ministry was keen on continuity of Universal Health Coverage and was working alongside key stakeholders to ensure the diseases were not sidelined. “Some of the measures that have been put in place include ensuring all NCD clinics at the county health facilities remain open so that patients can get the services they need, including medication,” Maree said. “Strict infection prevention and control measures have been put in place at the clinics to ensure that patients and public are protected even as they seek care.” The ministry has already issued guidance to persons living with NCDs on what they need to do at this time to ensure they manage their conditions. This includes ensuring that they continue with their medication and have enough drugs to last one month or more. Patients with hypertension and diabetes are advised to continue monitoring their blood pressure and blood sugar regularly while at home. Kenya Cardiac Society president Dr Bernard Gitura emphasised the importance of continuing to seek essential health services during the Covid-19 pandemic. He urged patients with hypertension and other heart diseases to continue with the treatment routine as prescribed by their health provider. “In addition, they should not hesitate to seek health services in case of emergencies or if they develop symptoms while at home. At this time, partnerships and collaborations are key in provision of quality healthcare services," Gitura said. Dr Catherine Karekezi, member of the NCD Alliance of Kenya, highlighted the urgent need to sustain public awareness campaigns and interventions to reduce risk factors and the burden of cardiovascular diseases in Kenya. “During this period where people are being encouraged to stay at home, we urge all to keep active and do regular physical activities at home,” Karekezi advised. Edited by Henry Makori