Ever since it emerged that the Directorate of Criminal Investigations is probing allegations of irregular finances in the Kakamega county government, senior officials at the devolved unit have been panicking. The DCI has summoned 17 officials for questioning over abuse of office and improper use of millions of shillings. One member of the Executive reportedly has vowed not to go down alone. He is said to be ready to provide detectives with the information they may need to press charges. Some officials have asked for more time before they can present themselves to detectives. Could they be attempting to clean up their closets before questioning? *** A bank associated with a well-known politician is in trouble after its CEO took the client’s money and used it without the knowledge of the owner. The CEO, known for impunity and pettiness, is now a subject of an investigation by the DCI. The office of the Director of Public Prosecutions has ordered an investigation into the fraudulent transactions by the CEO. The CEO is being investigated for illegal acquisition of property, conflict of interest and money laundering which are reputational risks to the bank. The ODPP’s letter has caused panic within the bank with staff hoping that the directors and shareholders will act quickly to save the institution. *** A senior cop is the talk of one of the towns at the periphery of the Nairobi metropolis for allegedly snatching an industrial worker’s wife. The man, said to be having an appetite for married women, took the mother of two away from her house having dated the woman for some time. The woman is currently embroiled in a child custody battle with her husband, of which they have agreed to share bills, food, clothing, and fees for their children. Those in the know say that the officer has kept sending messages laced with threats to those opposed to his bad habits. *** An MP from the North Rift is a man on the run after he failed to secure employment in the military for a resident some two years ago. The legislator is said to have received Sh250,000 from the parents of the youthful job seeker. When it became clear that the job could not be secured, the MP promised to refund the cash to the family. But for months now, nothing has been forthcoming. The legislator has been dodging the family and is no longer picking their calls. A confidant of the legislator said the MP had promised four youths employment and collected an equal amount from each. He said the MP secured two positions and refunded one job seeker his money.