The planned rollout of the Universal Health Coverage has run into headwinds due to the Covid-19 pandemic and retrogressive laws, the governors' lobby has said. The Council of Governors said the planned up-scaling of the programme in June has been postponed. The pandemic has negatively impacted the programme, the county chiefs, through Isiolo's Mohammed Kuti said in an online meeting hosted by the Senate Health Committee chaired by Senator Michael Mbito (Trans Nzoia). “Covid-19 has significantly affected the implementation of the Intergovernmental Partnership Agreements (IPAs) because resources that were meant to go to the scale-up of UHC had to be diverted to manage the current crisis,” Kuti said. His county was among the four selected for pilot execution. President Uhuru Kenyatta launched the piloting phase of the programme on December 13, 2018, in Kisumu to run for a year before the rollout. In December last year, he said the programme would be rolled out in June this year. A total of Sh26.3 billion was channelled to the programme and its enablers in the current financial year. This was increased by Sh16 billion in the initial  Supplementary Estimates in the current financial year. However, in the Supplementary (Covid-19) Estimates approved last week by the National Assembly,  development expenditure estimates for the rollout of the UHC was reduced by Sh9.4 billion while recurrent expenditure estimates for the primary healthcare was cut by Sh1.9 billion. “The reduction of the UHC allocation by Sh11.3 billion points to the potential that Covid-19 mitigation intervention measures have, fiscally and otherwise, derailed IPAs and UHC,” Mbito said. While noting that the success rate of the pilot programme varied across the four counties, Kuti said that public confidence in government health facilities had been greatly boosted. “The impact of the pilot is that public confidence in government-run facilities improved as they turned away from private facilities; in occasions three-fold, others four-fold according to data,” Kuti said. The governor, who is the chairman of the CoG Health subcommittee, noted that the greatest challenge experienced in the pilot phase was the retrogressive Health Laws (Amendment) Act of 2019. The laws require all counties to procure their commodities from the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority. The Act reads: “National or county public health facility shall, in the procurement and distribution of drugs and medical supplies, obtain all such drugs and medical supplies from the Authority [Kemsa].” Kuti said Kemsa does not have the capacity to supply all medicines and equipment required to provide healthcare in the country. "It is a monopoly that is dangerous and the delays in supply of drugs can lead to loss of life,”Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua said. His county was also in the pilot project. Kuti said Kemsa is able to  provide 70 per cent of medical commodities and proposed that a provision be made for Mission for Essential Drugs (MEDS) to supply 20 per cent while 10 per cent remains the preserve for counties to source from within their county or in Nairobi in emergency situations. Currently, procurement officers who sources medical commodities from any entity other than Kemsa, commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding Sh2 million or  imprisonment not exceeding five years, or to both. The senators at the meeting were Abdullahi Ali (vice-chair, Health), Mutula Kilonzo Jr, Petronilla Were, Beth Mugo, Fred Outa, Okong’o Omogeni, Naomi Shiyonga, Falhada Iman and Nderitu Kinyua.  - mwaniki fm