Uasin Gishu officials have held several meetings to craft a response strategy as Covid-19 cases soared to more than 30 with over 400 contacts being traced. Nineteen cases confirmed in the last three days were all truck drivers. The Kamalel Isolation Unit has exceeded its capacity of 25 beds and the quarantine centre for contacts at the Medical Training College in Eldoret is also full. Governor Jackson Mandago and CEO of the Moi Referral Hospital Dr Wilson Aruasa held meetings with county officials in plans set up more facilities to handle the cases. Officials blamed the rise of cases on truck drivers from the local villages who were forced to park their lorries in the town for fear of proceeding to Malaba border. Entry into Uganda had been blocked following protests by truckers over alleged mistreatment in Uganda. Meanwhile, four persons who had been quarantined at MTC in Eldoret escaped and were being traced in Kitale. “We now have a crisis as concerns the increasing numbers of patients and contacts,” Health executive Everlyne Rotich said. Hundreds of the truck drivers parked their vehicles at markets along the Eldoret-Webuye Highway. Efforts by government officials to control their movements have proved futile. Some of the drivers who tested positive escaped to the villages and health officials and police were dispatched to trace them. At Jua Kali market where hundreds of the drivers had parked their lorries, hostile villagers turned away enforcement officers who sought to control their movement. Residents complained that sending away the drivers would affect their businesses including hotels and lodgings which were thriving. Mandago has asked truck drivers resident in the region to keep off their homes to protect their families from Covid-19. Mandago said the drivers should care about the welfare of their families even if they have been tested for Covid-19 or not. The county chief said most of the drivers operate from high-risk counties of Mombasa and Nairobi and cases reported in the region are as a result of contact with them. “The drivers are our fathers, brothers, sisters and friends. We have not rejected them but we are pleading with them not to go to their homes so that they protect their family members especially aged parents who are very vulnerable,” he said. Uasin Gishu county commissioner Abdrisack Jaldesa says the drivers will have to produce Covid-19 clearance certificates to be allowed to park trucks at Maili Nne. Jaldesa has also cautioned wives and girlfriends of the drivers to keep social distance when they meet because the men operate from high-risk coronavirus areas. (edited by o. owino)