Normally, lawyers are supposed to represent and protect their clients based on the facts of the evidence they gave gathered and not physical wars. However, in a Nairobi court, an advocate in a criminal case picked a fight with a journalist who took photos of a suspect on the dock for a news story. The lawyer in a dramatic event, the lawyer even shoved the journalist's camera with anger. All this happened as the magistrate and the prosecutor watched. "I have analyzed the prosecution evidence and found out that you have a case to answer and therefore you have been put on defence," a Kibera magistrate ruled. Perhaps taking a cue from the lawyer, the suspect lashed out at the reporter and asked, "Why are you taking my pictures?" But realising he had made a mistake, the lawyer pulled his client away and said,  "Let's leave him for today". This was bad manners by the lawyer and the magistrate should have called him out. A man charged with violently robbing a KDF officer shocked people attending proceedings at a Mombasa court after he said he had no problem serving a life sentence. This is after he completely refused to plea not guilty, despite the presiding magistrate advising him to rethink his decision. "The offence read to you is a capital offence whose verdict is death or a life sentence," the presiding magistrate said. The man still pleaded guilty. So, why would police officers arrest you and present you before the court without a charge sheet? Well, a man found himself sitting alone after all the other suspects were attended to at a Nairobi court on Monday. "Anyone who is yet to be served by this honourable court? Clerk,I think we are done with today's plea," the magistrate said, without knowing the man become increasingly impatient and angry. "Mkubwa, if my name is not in the list of suspects, what am I doing here? The police are the ones who arrested me without any offence. Order them to leave me alone," he added. The magistrate ordered that he be taken back to the police cells and that his case be mentioned on Monday.