The Kiambu government will repair four bridges that were destroyed by the swollen Kariminu and Chania rivers in Gatundu North. The bridges linking Mataara-Gakoe, Ngorongo-Ndekei-Kamwangi, Kairi-Muirigo and Makwa-Gatukuyu were destroyed after the rivers burst their banks following a heavy downpour in the region. The destruction dealt a huge blow to traders who supply farm produce to markets and transport sector players including matatus and boda boda operators. The two swollen rivers also left farmers with huge losses after their crops were swept away. Paul Njuguna, a community leader in Ngorongo village, told the Star on the phone that residents were suffering due to the current state of the bridges. They cannot access most services and are forced to travel for many kilometers to get them. “We get medical, bank and police services at Kamwangi which is less than seven kilometers across the bridge. But currently, residents are forced to travel for over 30km to access Kamwangi town. We are suffering,” he said. Njuguna told the Kiambu county government to expedite the repair of the bridges to end the agony residents are enduring. Trade and cooperatives executive Kigo Njenga told the Star that county engineers would be deployed in the area to assess and lay down plans to refurbish or replace the destroyed bridges. “Some of the bridges have been destroyed beyond repair and will be reconstructed. Right now the county government is pooling resources so that the works can begin as soon as possible so that we can bring to an end the suffering that our people are going through,” Kigo said. The former Gatundu North MP said the county government would partner with the national government to expedite the repair works. Kigo noted that residents in the affected areas had been confined in their villages since they could not risk crossing the rivers on makeshift bridges. “We understand the urgency of the matter and we don’t want our people to risk their lives crossing the rivers on improvised bridges,” he said. He also pointed out that the county government would take food aid to landslide victims in Igegania and Gakoe villages who were forced out of their homes by the disaster. “We are working round the clock to ensure that Kiambu residents who have been affected by other disasters during this difficult time of the Covid-19 pandemic get help in terms of food rations,” Kigo said. Edited by Henry Makori