Storms are determined to reach the women’s Premier League finals this year, according to coach Abel Nson. He said Storms have finished as second runners up thrice in a row and their aim this time around is to break through to the top, considering the calibre of signings they have made this year. “We have teams like champions Equity Bank who proven to be tough nuts to crack for over two years and we would like to break the jinx this time around,” said Nson. To achieve their dream, Storms have recruited Delima Odindi from KCA University and Burundian Magnifique Magnifique formerly of United States International University (USIU). Nson believes Magnifique brings on board the much-needed experience at the point guard position to assist her compatriot Steffi Ngabire. “Magnifique has a vast experience in the game and has been a performer since high school days with Tigoi and later after joining USIU and KPA. We are confident with what she is bringing on the table on both ends,” he quipped. He said the other recruit Odindi is also expected to change and spice up the game despite having been away for a couple of years. “She is versatile with good perimeter shots and agility. She will be a big threat due to her strength and finishing abilities around the basket.” Storms also boast the return of Deedee Were, who will work down low and former national team playmaker Grace “Gus” Wanjiku who will finally play a full season. “This dynamic duo of Deedee and Delima will be the backbone of our team,” said Nson, adding: “To supplement their efforts, we still have the services of veterans Angela Luchivya, Sylvia “ Sly” Omolo, Pam Sinda and Patricia Kalusiokoma.” The team will be led by the duo of Cylia and Lynette Atieno with the indefatigable Luchivya and ever hustling Wanjiku chipping in. “Our sights are set on the finals and we expect to achieve our goals as long as we keep our focus and minimise on our mistakes.” “Ngabire knows her hands are full. As our star point guard and captain, she needs to steer the ship wisely,” Nson said, promising an entertaining season. Luchivya in a separate interview also predicted reaching the finals going by the team’s promising signings. “We know our weakness and we are ready to work on our mistakes. We are determined to fill the gaps and see how it goes. But we are determined to reach the finals,” said the former national team captain. Luchivya, who is still very much the engine that drives the Storms machine, said the players started early training this time around only to be interrupted by the coronavirus pandemic.