Deputy President William Ruto's Tantatanga camp received a brow after three Kirinyaga MPs abandoned the group and pledged allegiance to President Uhuru Kenyatta. Gichimu Githinji (Gichugu), John Wambugu (Kirinyaga Central) and Kabinga Wachira (Mwea) said they don't want to be associated with the Tangatanga camp anymore. The Tangatanga camp is a group of Jubilee politicians backing Ruto's 2022 presidential ambitions and have pledged loyalty to the DP. The three MPs have been vocal members of the group. “We want to publicly declare our support to the Head of State and his government. We were elected to support his projects and programmes in Parliament and thus we don't want to be referred to as Tangatanga MPs again," Kabinga said. The MPs spoke at Kiamutugu village in Kirinyaga on Wednesday when Interior PS Karanja Kibicho toured the region to inspect national government development projects. The lawmakers said they had abandoned the Tangatanga camp to gain favour with the national government and attract development projects in their constituencies. “We want to strengthen our relationship with the national government and make it as healthy as possible since as elected leaders we want more development in our areas," Kabinga said. The Mwea MP said they will attend the Jubilee Parliamentary Group meeting called by President Kenyatta, saying they have a lot of respect for their party leader. Kabinga said they were in support of the ongoing purge within the Jubilee Party that has seen rebels dewhipped from committee positions and Senate leadership seats. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and Nakuru's Susan Kihika were both removed as Majority Leader and Majority Whip, respectively. Last week, the party removed Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki as Deputy Speaker of the Senate and has already instituted disciplinary action against senators who skipped a meeting called at State House by Uhuru two weeks ago. Kibicho welcomed the MPs move saying it was a good thing to join the "government fold." Kibicho who has on several occasions been accused of fighting and undermining Ruto, said he will continue championing President Kenyatta’s agenda. He accused Kirinyaga residents of blindly supporting wrong leaders. The PS was with three colleagues. He said his role is to protect and champion the President’s agenda. He said Uhuru's government has initiated so many projects in Kirinyaga county. “I was employed by the President to protect him and defend his agenda and I will not shy away from doing my work. I want to tell Kirinyaga people not to follow some people blindly," Kibicho said.  Edited by P. O