President Uhuru Kenyatta has warned against politicising the fight against coronavirus. "Lets stop politicising this coronavirus.. all the money that has been spent during this time shall be audited in broad day light so that Kenyans will be able to know how the money worked," he said. This was after an uproar on social media on how the money was used. A document tabled before the Health Committee of the National Assembly chaired by Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege indicates the ministry used Sh42 million to lease 15 ambulances. They used Sh14.4 million to maintain and fuel 30 vehicles used by officers across the country, translating to Sh40,000 per vehicle every week. The ministry spent Sh2 million out of the Sh6 million approved for airtime for some of its 500 staff for a period of three months. But speaking at State House on Friday, Uhuru said these kind of talks should come to an end. "It shall be made public. This is not the time to blame each other... this is the time to be supportive," Uhuru said. "There are many people who are suffering because of this disease. Let us come together to defeat this disease." So far Kenya has reported 396 cases with deaths jumping to 17 by Thursday. "This disease can only be defeated when we work together. This will allows as come back to our feet in regards the economy," Uhuru said. Regarding labour day, Uhuru said he has reduced the prices of commodities to help the Kenyan worker. "We will see how to help others. We have tried to reduce the prices of food. We have reduced this to cushion Kenyans," he said. "Against all odds, our health workers are giving their all and saving those affected by coronavirus and working against the heavy floods an rains. Farmers continue to toil to feed people...," he said. But he noted that Kenyans must continue working wherever they are. "If we don't, we could loose half a million jobs in six months. I want us to work together and flatten the curve of joblessness. We shall do this together," he said. He said that he will give strategies to bring back Kenya's economy to its feet. "I want to partner with you and I want you to partner with the government . See this as a moment to better ourselves. Without the worker that investment is dead," he said. "The worker should be one and work for the common good. We need to think differently and focus on opportunities rather than the danger." Today, workers would ordinarily throng Uhuru Park not only to celebrate their input into the economy but also listen to an announcement from the government with hope of an increase in minimum wages. However, this year’s celebration will be far different, there will be no gathering, no song and dance and for some workers, they are staring at job losses or salary cuts as the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic are felt. While the government has eased taxation that could have burdened the thousands of workers as a way of mitigating the effects of coronavirus which has hit the economy, it will be remembered that last year, the workers went home empty handed.