The High Court  has suspended the decision by the Law Society of Kenya to revoke the decision of the committee that recommended 24 advocates to the rank Senior Counsel Twenty two lawyers who had been given the title on August 29 last year moved to court early this week to challenge the LSK council decision to revoke their recommendation. They include Phillip Murgor, Waweru Gatonye, Kalonzo Musyoka, Fred Ngatia, Martha Karua, Judy Thongori,Taib Ali Taib, Kioko Kilukumi, Otiende Amollo and John Chigiti. Justice Pauline Nyamweya said she was satisfied that the exparte applicants had demonstrated that the matter was urgent and should be heard on priority basis. “It would be prudent that the current status quo be maintained pending conformation of the legality or otherwise of the LSK action to revoke the conferment of senior counsel status to the applicants, the stay orders sought are accordingly deserved,” the judge ruled. Judge Nyamweya consequently suspended the decision to revoke the recommendation of the committee on senior counsel made on August 26, 2019 to confer the rank and dignity to the 24 lawyers. . The lawyers have been directed to serve LSK with the petition and parties to file their response. The case will be mentioned on July 6 for further directions. In the case, the lawyers have faulted the LSK council for revoking the decision by the Committee on Senior Counsel. Phillip Murgor argues in an affidavit that the LSK council has no powers to revoke a decision of the committee on senior counsel because it’s independent of LSK and its decisions are not open to review. "LSK president Nelson Havi in arriving at the decision was conflicted as he is the lawyer on record representing Donald Kipkorir in the same case in court challenging the conferment of the lawyers,” Murgor argues. They lawyers aver that the decision was made when the council was fully aware or should have been aware of the existence of proceedings filed by lawyer Kipkorir against LSK. “In spite of lacking jurisdiction and authority to make impugned decision, the council of the LSK has assumed jurisdiction and issued orders purporting to revoke the decision of the committee of senior counsel which was established under rule 3 of the advocates made on August 29 2019 which had recommended the conferment of rank and dignity of senior counsel to the 24 lawyers,” court papers read in part. According to court records, the composition of the Committee on Senior Counsel shall consist of a judge of the Supreme Court, Court of Appeal, High Court, Attorney General, LSK president, three senior counsel and two advocates not being senior counsel. Edited by E.Kibii