Kiambu Governor James Nyoro has announced that his government together with the Ministry of Health will start mass testing on Covid-19 next week. The process will start with the county's hotspots where the virus has been reported. Speaking at the county headquarters in Kiambu town on Wednesday, Nyoro said that they will start by testing 200 people in Soko Mjinga on the border of Kiambu and Nyandarua counties, Thika, Gachie, Wangige. The governor spoke while flagging off foodstuff meant to help the vulnerable in the county worth Sh10 million given out by wellwishers. The governor said three people had been reported to have had symptoms of the virus from Riabai, Uthiru and Githurai areas. The three were tested and taken for quarantine at the Kenyatta University Referral Hospital where they are being monitored. “We have screened so far over 570,000 people in Kiambu and we have conducted some few tests so far but none of them had the virus. It was a precaution when one has high temperature we have to be on the lookout and those we tested with high temperatures with time they went down,” said Nyoro. Nyoro said that the county has a team of dedicated health workers who have responded to emergencies promptly and are attending to patients suffering other illnesses. The county boss said that the county government in conjunction with a committee of wellwishers have received 17,000 packets rice, 17,000 packets of flour, 8,500 kilogrammes of wheat, 17,000 litres of cooking oil, 17,000 kilogrammes of beans and other foodstuffs. “We have a committee which is collecting food from well-wishers. The county government is yet to buy foodstuffs since we are waiting for our supplementary budget to be approved,” said Nyoro. He added that they have formed a ward and subcounty food distribution committees to aid the exercise. The committees which will comprise of the ward and subcounty administrators, a church leader, a woman and youth representatives at the ward level, will identify the vulnerable cases for food donations. “We cannot have people come here at the county headquarters to pick their donations. The food needs to be distributed properly so that we even obey the social distancing rule and also make sure the food reaches the intended persons in need and avoid scrambling for the food,” said Nyoro. He, however, said that the county government in conjunction with the county assembly will make all efforts to curb the spread of  Covid-19. The governor added no markets will be closed but the MoH rules and guidelines should be followed.