Don't give us relief food every year but instead initiate long term solutions to floods in Western region, Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi has told the State. Wandayi said the raging floods in parts of the country, particularly Nyanza, should be declared a national disaster. "This is the only way we can attract the necessary attention from the state, humanitarian agencies and other private actors to come up with a long term solution," Wandayi said. Wandanyi was accompanied by Ugenya MP David Ochieng. The Ugunja MP said that thousands have been displaced and  homes swept away adding that no amount of relief food will replace what they have lost. Wandayi added that residents are exposed to serious diseases including covid 19 since it's almost impractical to observe social distancing under such conditions. "Both the national and county governments must move with speed to address the situation before it develops into a major calamity," he added. The MP said long term solution for residents living a long the shores of Lake Victoria and River Nzoia must include resettlement of those affected to safer places. The Ugenya MP said as leaders they will not continue doing the same thing with no results. Ochieng regretted that every year they have been forced to give relief foods to residents when the government can end the issue of flooding. "I have done so many letter to the government to consider Ugenya in vain, but I will not tire to ensure that Ugenya people are considered," Ochieng said. Ochieng regretted that the land that is now submerged if reclaimed can feed the entire Siaya county and beyond. "The land is more than 200 hectors that if put under good use to produce rice, vegetables and so on no one can go without a meal in Siaya," Ochieng said. So far more than 2,000 households in Siaya county have been rendered homeless due to the heavy down pore that has led to River Nzoia and Lake Victoria to bust it's bunks. According to the Ugenya sub county deputy commissioner Pamela Otieno no life has been lost but properties and items of unknown value have been lost.