AN MP has pleaded the Jubilee MPs to heed to the call by the party leader Uhuru Kenyatta to attend the Party Parliamentary Group meeting which is meant for National assembly members. Nominated MP David ole Sankok said that all the legislators must attend without fail saying that the leaders within Jubilee with a contrary opinion will be able to air their views in the meeting. Speaking to the Star on phone yesterday, Sankok stated that it was important for them to be loyal to the party leader who add up as the president and it will be treason to fail to heed his call both as a majority leader and as the president. Sankok is representing persons with living with disabilities in parliament. “It does not matter who you are allied to because not attending is insubordination and disloyal which amounts to ‘treason’ for not attending the president’s function,” Sankok who added what will be agreed in the long awaiting meeting will be binding because it is in-house affairs. According to Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju the meeting is convened for next week and it will be perilous for leaders within the ruling party Jubilee not to attend. This is a test for deputy president William Ruto's loyalist who seemed reluctant to attend the meeting. Sankok, who happened to have ditched the Ruto camp, pointed out that whether a member is allied to any leader, all members should show support to the party leader since the party still has structures of the party and that everybody should attend. He argued that the party wanted to deliberate on internal matters and that they should not wash their dirty garments in public. "These are our internal matters and if possible, let no one miss to attend. Let us not put our dissenting opinion on social media but rather bring them on board so that the party may grow stronger yet again," he added. He said the majority will have their way and minority will have their say but attending the party meeting was a must. The nominated member said the party members should show some respect to the party leader like any other parties.