The Gikuyu, Embu, Meru Association has backed President Uhuru Kenyatta's efforts to unify the country by working closely with Opposition leaders. Through its chairman Lawi Imathiu, Gema said it supports the President's efforts to reform the country's political landscape by bringing together leaders from all political shades. The statement comes at a time when there are reports of an impending reorganisation of the Executive to bring on board key Opposition leaders, former Prime Minister Raila Odinga of ODM. It also follows a falling-out in government that has resulted in Deputy President William Ruto's loyalists in Parliament purged. Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki is the latest victim of Uhuru's ruthless onslaught on Ruto's allies as he is set to lose hi deputy speaker position on Friday. According to Imathiu, the process to expand the government should be supported as it is part of the President's agenda to unite all communities and end deep-seated interethnic hatred. “We, therefore, wish to commend and thank the President for taking this bold move, especially at this time when the whole world and the country is fighting the devastating Covid-19 pandemic,” Bishop Imathiu said. In a thinly veiled attack on Ruto, Imathiu said the President has no business appeasing leaders trying to sabotage his unity agenda and the fight against corruption. Without any direct reference to the wrangles roiling the ruling Jubilee Party, Gema said the President has their unequivocal support in his actions to unity the country. “We are aware that there will be heated political discourse on the actions that his excellency the President is taking, particularly within the political parties and government,” Imathiu said in a paid-up advertisement in a local daily. He termed it unfortunate that a section of politicians is busy politicising the President's war on corruption as well as his agenda to bring all communities together. Gema also appeared to throw its weight behind the Building Bridge Initiative that seeks to amend the Constitution and usher in a new governance structure. “We believe that the President's agenda will provide the country with the blueprint for unity, avenues for resolving weaknesses in the Constitution, governance and removing corruption from among and within Kenyan institutions,” Imathiu said. Edited by F'Orieny