The heavy rain pounding various parts of the country has left a trail of destruction in Murang’a county. Rivers across the county have burst their banks, people displaced and farms destroyed. In Kiharu subcounty, crops were destroyed after River Maragua burst its banks and flooded farms in Mariira. At least 15 families were forced to relocate to safer grounds after floods destroyed their homes. Motorists using the Mukuyu-Ha Thamaki road, which connects Murang’a to Sagana highway have also been told to exercise caution as some roads are flooded. In Gatanga subcounty, more than 10 homes have been affected by landslides that have swept away acres of tea farms. On Thursday night, a landslide swept away a two-acre tea farm in Kagarii village, leaving two houses hanging precariously. The farm has been rendered inhabitable and the family has been moved to safer grounds. Eight households with 31 members were affected. Deputy county commissioner David Rotich said no casualties had been reported and the local disaster management team had rescued the affected families. Rotich said River Chania has burst its banks, flooding Maporomoko area near Thika and submerging eight houses. “The disaster management team rescued three families that had been stuck in their houses owing to the raging waters,” he said. The affected families were integrated with others. Motorists using Gatura-Kiarutara-Mataara road were also urged to exercise caution as River Chania has swollen dangerously at Kairutara bridge. In Mathioya subcounty, transport operations along St Mary Gitugi road were disrupted at Runyeki area due to a mudslide. Muthangari- Gacharageini road has also been affected by a landslide that occurred in Mioro, blocking the road. Mathioya deputy county commissioner Kipchumba Rutto said the Kenya Rural Roads Authority (Kerra) has dispatched a team of contractors to clear the roads. County director of meteorology Paul Murage said soils have reached maximum saturation capacity and this may trigger landslides. “These rains will continue until the end of May, and we are asking those living in risky areas to be on the lookout for any sign of earth movement,” he said. Huge cracks have appeared in Murarandia village, Kahuro subcounty, causing panic among residents. The area experienced earth movements, displacing 12 families after their farms started sinking. Murage said cracks have also appeared in Mathioya. Ndakaini and Sasumua dams, which filled up last year, continue to spill extra water into the already swollen Chania and Thika rivers. Edited by A.N