 Kenyans unable to pay their medical bills after Covid-19 treatment in public hospitals will be allowed to pay what they can after an assessment by the government. The assessment will be done by a psycho-social team that will determine the ability of the patients to pay bills. Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe in a virtual meeting with MPs on Thursday said the balance will be considered for a waiver. “However, funds are required to reimburse the facilities for sustainability,” Kagwe said. There are currently around 240 Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment in various hospital across the country. The CS was responding to an inquiry by MPs on who would foot the bills for treatment of the virus. Last week, Health PS Susan Mochache said it costs an average of Sh1 million to take care of a single Covid-19 patient. The cost of treatment varies from one patient to another depending on any complications that may arise. The high costs include the protective gear, bed charges, medicine, food and the duration of stay of the patient in the hospital. Health director general Patrick Amoth however says the Universal Health Coverage agenda to ensure that Kenyans have access to affordable quality health services has not died. “Affordable may not necessarily mean free. Those who have not been able to pay we have always worked out ways to ensure that they leave the facility,” Amoth said. The matter will also be discussed in the National Emergency Response Team meeting this weekend. “We have always had letters from quarantine facilities addressed to the PS who is the accounting officer that this person is not able to pay but their bill was this much, and such people have always been released.” The government has on the other hand maintained that those in quarantine facilities will have to cater for the costs. “In most cases, it is the one quarantined who will bear the cost of quarantine. However in cases of need and where it can be established need the government is taking that on a case by case basis,” Health Chief Administrative Secretary Rashid Aman said.  Edited by P.O