The Judiciary on Wednesday received a boost after the EU and UNODC donated laptops that will help in the use of technology in court cases. Chief Justice David Maraga scaled down court operations in a bid to stop the spread of Covid-19 and they moved to use online platforms to file and hear their cases. While receiving the laptops, Maraga said the donations have come at the right time and they will help deal with cases. “The use of technology in the dispensation of justice has since proved an invaluable channel through which we can carry out operations in the justice sector during this period of scaled down court operations,” Maraga said. According to the CJ, during this time that the court has scaled down operations, they have managed to deliver approximately 7,000 judgments. Meanwhile, the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions has registered a total of 1,043 cases that are Covid-19 related. Speaking when he also received computers, DPP Noordin Haji said they had registered over 2,200 cases between March 16 and April 30. Some of the donated have also been taken to the Prison Department to help with the criminal appeal inmates to be able to attend hearings via online platforms. Maraga noted that before the laptops, the Court of Appeal criminal hearings had a shortage which had slowed down the delivery of justice. “I note that the Prisons Service has received the bulk of the computers donated today and this will help facilitate the hearing of criminal appeals,” he said. Last month, Maraga said all courts will continue to deliver judgments through emails and hear matters using video conferencing except in exceptional circumstances regarding civil matters. Maraga reiterated that since the Covid-19 pandemic began, court proceedings can only be conducted remotely through the use of technology in order to limit courtroom interactions. "While it is prudent to upscale court activities, it will not be wise to have open court sessions at this time. We must, however, emphasize that this does not mean that the courts have closed down as some want to claim," he said in a statement. Maraga noted that a number of judicial officers conduct their court sessions from their chambers, making it difficult to keep the required social distance recommended by the Ministry of Health. Court activities involve an extensive exchange of paperwork from advocates, therefore, accelerating the spread risks. The CJ, however, warned that court operations have never and will never be closed.