The ongoing rains have swept off the Tulasha water line in Nyandarua County, leading to an acute water shortage in Gilgil and Nakuru towns. Following the move, over 200,000 water consumers in the two towns - including several military barracks  - have been affected. Nakuru Rural Water and Sanitation Company with the support of Kenya Defence Forces, yesterday moved in to repair the affected sections as the shortage worsened. According to the Water Company MD Reuben Korir, the affected line was critical in water supply, adding that 15 per cent of their customers were affected. Addressing the press at the location of the repairs, Korir said the damages were worth more than Sh5 million, after landslide led to the collapse of the main pipes. “Over 200,000 of our customers have been affected after the pipes were washed by the floods and we are engaging KDF in the repairs,” he said. Korir added that no other section of the county had been affected by the floods with consumers getting their daily water supply. “The rains have adversely affected many sectors but on water it’s only the Turasha line which has been washed by floods and we are in the process of repairing it,” he said. The senior officer said they had sought the help and expertise of KDF in repairing the damages pipes as the latter was also affected. On his part, Colonel Cherotwei Simotwo from Kenyatta Barracks admitted that the breakdown had adversely affected their operations. “We have been forced to use water tanks to supply the barracks with water and this is a very serious and expensive exercise,” he said. He said that they were offering expertise and equipments in restoring the broken down pipes so that the supply of water could resume soonest possible. Cherotwei noted that water was very critical to the country at a time when Covid-19 had left over 600 people positive. “At this time water is critical for hand washing and we have decided to support the water company so that supply can be restored as soon as possible,” he said.