All Nyandarua roads will be upgraded to motorable condition in the next three years, Governor Francis Kimemia said on Wednesday. Nyandarua has 4,700km of road network and the county has bought Sh500 million equipment including graders and earthmovers to improve infrastructure. Kimemia, who spoke at Ol Kalou Stadium during dedication prayers and flagging off of the equipment to the subcounties, said the road upgrade would have taken 30 years under normal tendering processes. The equipment was bought by the county with funds from the World Bank. Kimemia said upgrading roads was one of his flagship projects and remains a covenant with Nyandarua residents to ensure the county is opened up and well connected with other regions for economic growth. “When I stood before you in this very stadium three years ago, I pledged to comprehensively fulfill the third pillar of my manifesto - infrastructure development. This was to ensure an efficient transportation system for all our people and the movement of goods and services into and out of our great county,” the governor said “I committed to ensuring 3,400 kilometres of classified road network across the county is improved to their respective classification standards, and implement 425 kilometres earmarked for improvement to bitumen standards and ensure the maintenance of the existing 224 kilometres of tarmacked roads.” He said residents, especially youths will be involved in labour provision and materials for construction. They will be supported by National Youth Service cohorts to construct culverts, bridges and stormwater drainages. Kimemia said the programme will open up areas such as Geta and Githioro wards while reclaiming all encroached road reserves. He said the Sh500 million project is one of the biggest single investment by a county government since the advent of devolution in 2013. Nyandarua, he said, has been doing between 200 to 300 kilometres of roads per year. Under the new programme, his administration seeks to achieve more by upgrading between 800 and 1,000 kilometres of all-weather roads per year. The cost of doing one kilometre of road using the equipment is 30 per cent of the average contracted cost per kilometre, which cost Sh1 million. "Each of our machines has already been comprehensively insured," the governor said. Construction materials will be sourced from the nearest approved quarry. Some 75 quarries have already been approved by the county. Kimemia thanked locals for supporting the programme.  He assured private contractors of his commitment to ensuring private enterprises thrive. “I consider it a blessing to have contractors in our county. Our road construction programme is our marshal plan to ensure that we bridge gaps which our meagre resources and private capacity can address. I assure all contractors here today that my government will honour the private sector’s share of roads to be constructed by external actors," Kimemia said. The governor warned vandals against targeting the new equipment. He said there was information that some people were waiting for the new machines to be taken to the ground so they can steal wheels, filters among other vehicle parts. “We are in agreement with the DCI that we are going to charge them with economic sabotage under the Economic Crimes Act," Kimemia said. Edited by P.O