Judiciary reforms have been put on hold following a Sh23 billion budget deficit. The Judiciary Magazine released on Friday said that the financial resource gap of Sh23.6 billion translates to 63 per cent of the total resource requirement for the Financial Year 2020/21. Judiciary Chief Registrar Anne Amadi said the funding priorities for the current financial year include projects geared towards improving access to justice. The projects include the establishment of Court of Appeal stations in Nakuru, Eldoret and Meru, opening of new Magistrates’ courts' stations at the constituency level and establishment of mobile courts in marginalized and far-flung areas “Automation of the Court processes for the digitization of court records and roll-out of Case Management Systems (CMS) in all Court stations as well as automated e-filing for improved revenue collection and deposit management will also be a key priority,” Amadi said. “This implies that without enhanced government of Kenya funding, capital projects in the Judiciary will not be initiated and those that are ongoing will stall indefinitely.” Amadi was speaking during a public hearing for the presentation of the budget proposals for the FY 2020/21 and the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD). She said that the Judiciary faced challenges with the development vote attributed to delays in the loading of funds on the Integrated Financial Management System (IFMIS) system, intermittent abrupt budget cuts which affected the contractor’s payments schedules. The Chief Registrar of the Judiciary said the institution’s recurrent vote is in the deficit of 57 per cent while the Development vote is facing a 93 per cent shortfall in its Government of Kenya (GOK) funding. Amadi expressed concern that the World Bank project-Judiciary Performance Improvement Project (JPIP) which has largely supported 90 per cent of the funding of capital projects in the development vote of the Judiciary from FY 2013/14 to-date is coming to an end in October 2020. She, however, noted that the Judiciary’s recurrent budget recorded a high absorption rate of over 95 per cent during the period under review while the development vote absorption rose from 67 per cent in the Finacial Year 2016/17 to 78 per cent in FY 2018/19. Amadi revealed that this was the first time public hearings regarding the Judiciary’s budgeting process were being held. In the past, the Judiciary’s resource allocation process was done through a bidding process under the Governance Law and Order Sector (GJLOS). She added that this has continuously disadvantaged the Judiciary and eroded the financial autonomy envisaged in the Constitution. The Public applauded the Judiciary for a job well done even with limited resources and urged the government to consider increasing the Institution’s budget.