Walking down the streets of Eastleigh, the area looks like a shadow of its former self. The government has banned movement into and out of the business hub for 15 days. Like any other business hub, Eastleigh bears all the hallmarks of a busy marketplace—endless human and vehicle traffic, vendors calling out to buyers, porters with heavy luggage on their shoulders. On Fridays, most activities start and end early as the residents, mostly of Somali origin, hurry to close their businesses in time for Muslim prayers. The 15-day restriction of movement was announced on Wednesday and took effect at 7pm the same day, affecting thousands of residents and business people. On Friday things were different. The streets were quiet, only security officers could be seen moving around. A few shops were open and once in a while, one would spot a civilian going to the shops. Many people preferred to hang out on their balconies. Along First Avenue, a number of matatus were parked by the road. Garissa Lodge and other malls on the streets remained shut. That was the scene in other business streets. In residential areas along Ninth Street, garbage was strewn on roads. “We have a big problem; this lockdown was not properly planned. The collectors cannot access Eastleigh and we are left to store weeklong garbage,” said Anisa Hassan, a resident. Hassan said she watches her neighbours throw garbage on the street from their balconies, especially at night. “I cannot stop them because I do not have an alternative solution,” she said. Deep in the estate, many residents complain of water shortage, which is forcing them to buy the commodity expensively from vendors. Mohammed Ahmed Said said sewage and dirty water flows through residential houses, posing a health hazard. “Our taps are dry, forcing us to buy water from vendors at exorbitant prices. Sewage flows freely along the streets mixed with rainwater and nothing can be done. This is a ticking time bomb,” he said. Eastleigh is largely inhabited by Muslims who are currently observing Ramadhan. Residents said no mass testing has been done since Saturday. They believe the efforts to combat Covid-19 are futile. “We do not have time to follow up on many issues affecting us and we do not want to disturb our peace during this holy period, so we hope the government can act by ensuring our health is guaranteed,” another resident said. Kamukunji MP Yusuf Hassan said, “I can’t fathom such an economy being shut down for 15 days. As we speak, everything is at a standstill.” Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya