 As wrangles in Jubilee Party escalate, MPs allied to Deputy President William Ruto have been getting bolder in their attacks on President Uhuru Kenyatta. The legislators, convinced that Uhuru is erecting hurdles to block Ruto's 2022 State House dream, have fired salvo after salvo ostensibly to create a narrative that they are unwanted and therefore have room to decamp. In a daring attack, Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri on Sunday told Uhuru he might end up in The Hague as a suspect of crimes against humanity if he continues to humiliate Ruto. Uhuru faced charges of crimes against humanity at The Hague but in December 2014, prosecutors at the International Criminal Court (ICC) dropped all charges against him. Uhuru was the first head of state to appear before the court after he was charged in 2012. Ngunjiri claimed the President was sending people to insult the DP and warned that he would be held responsible if skirmishes erupt. “If there will be any bloodshed in Kenya during your leadership or in the coming election, The Hague is watching and you will be one of those going back to the ICC and you will never come back,” Ngujiri said during a press conference. Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro, another ally of Ruto, posted on Facebook that after Ruto's Ruai land saga, they will be pushing to know how a few families own half of Kenya – an attack seen to be directed at Uhuru’s family. "I'm confident that after we're done with Ruai land and the saga around it, the momentum will be maintained as we interrogate how few families (actually less than five) got to own more than half of Kenya. We keep hiding real facts under the carpet while pretending to appear good," Nyoro said. The Kiharu MP further asked the 'dynasties' to reveal whom they bought the said large parcel of land from. He asked them to produce receipts if they have any. "I don't buy the crap that this generation of men and women were not hardworking; some few elites who colonised us after Mzungu took advantage of them, took all our land," Nyoro said. Ruto has indicated that he will not be challenging the eviction from Ruai sewerage land that the government repossessed last month. On Jubilee wrangles, Nyoro is reported to have dismissed secretary general Raphael Tuju, who is also a member of Uhuru’s Cabinet as a non-performer. Allies of Ruto are also claiming that Jubilee’s 2017 campaign materials were supplied by Uhuru’s relative contrary to the Public Procurement and Disposal Act. Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wa, also chairman of the National Assembly Budget Appropriations Committee, said his party has never supplied copies of its audited accounts to the National Assembly. On January 29, Ngujiri said the President had visited his constituency not to launch any development project but to insult and bully him. Uhuru had a day earlier lashed out at Ngunjiri for hurling insults at him and “ignoring to serve his constituents.” He addressed the MP, who was present at a state function in Nakuru county. “He was elected like me. He was not elected to talk and for us just to listen,” Ngunjiri said. Political analyst Joseph Mutua, however, said the DP and his team have made up their mind that Uhuru has abandoned Ruto. "But they won't give up. They are even prepared to plunge Kenya into chaos. If this strategy works, they think it is the President who will be blamed for chaos," Mutua said. Mutua noted that Uhuru’s allies have made up their minds that he (Uhuru) will support Raila-Gideon Moi line-up in 2022, and they are out to cast Uhuru as a person who has betrayed them and paint him 'as corrupt and power hungry'. “If the President opts not to support Ruto in 2022, that will not be a crime. There is no law compelling him to do so. Kenya is a democratic Nation and I know Uhuru will support the candidate who will support his legacy projects and move the country forward,” Mutua said.  Edited by A.N