The High Court has ordered the retrial of four men who had been acquitted on charges of forgery and conspiring to defraud the Kenya Wildlife Service. Devfraj Sergani, Ravilah Patel, Haresh Debraj and Samji Lalji were charged in 2014 with three counts. They denied the charges. After a full trial, the court acquitted them, citing failure by the prosecution to avail witnesses in court for hearing hence delaying the case. The prosecution appealed the magistrate's decision. However, Justice Alfred Mabeya sitting in Meru, ruled that the prosecution was not to blame for the delay of the case. Mabeya said the trial court wrongly exercised its discretion in refusing the adjournment. Its decision cannot be allowed to stand. Justice Mabeya also noted that the prosecution was given a final adjournment on February 8, 2017, but on the following two hearing dates, the defence applied for adjournments which were allowed, thereby collapsing the hearing of the case. He said that it was only once, April 27, 2018, when the victim failed to parade its witnesses and the trial court decided to terminate the proceedings. The victim was treated unjustly, he ruled. “To my mind, the trial court acted unreasonably and did not weigh the rights of the parties before it in a just manner when it declined the adjournment sought. The court did not consider the reasons advanced properly before declining the application for adjournment. The trial court, therefore, erred when it forced the prosecution to close its case,” the judge said. He directed the matter to be mentioned on June 22, to fix a hearing date. The four suspects had been charged with conspiring to defraud Kenya Wildlife Service of Sh6,625 on or about December 27, 2014 in Meru county. Count two was that Haresh unlawfully permitted Samji Lalji to be in possession of an identity card issued to him. Ravila and Samji were further charged with using an identity card belonging to Haresh. Aisha Ibrahim, a ranger with KWS, told the court she was on duty at Murira National Park collecting revenue and offering security when a convoy of seven vehicles arrived with visitors of Indian origin at 7am. The team leader Ravilah Patel came to the counter and paid on behalf of the others. She charged them according to the ID cards he gave her. The record of the vehicles and visitors was entered in the cash book and Ravilah signed on behalf of all of them. Thereafter, the visitors were let in. At about 7pm, the ticket inspection unit led by Mwanakhamisi informed her that some of the visitors were non-residents. She was shown an ID card which one of the visitors used to gain entry as a citizen. The ID was in the name of Haresh. They also showed her a special pass for one of the visitors. She revised the fees payable and the underpayment was made.  (edited by o. owino)