Kisumu Catholic Archbishop Phillip Anyolo has appealed for donations of cash, food and other items to support flood and Covid-19 victims. Anyolo said many are suffering and donations to the archdiocese through its Caritas department will help offer urgent interventions. He spoke on Friday when he launched the Covid-19 emergency response team at the Cathedral of St Theresa of the Child Jesus, Kibuye to support the needy. “This team will consult with the relevant government agencies and other non-state actors to advise the archdiocese accordingly on how to respond to emergencies,” he said. Anyolo flagged off packages of food items dubbed 'the basket of solidarity’ targeting more than 450 families in flood-affected areas. The bishop urged Kenyans to embrace a collective responsibility in supporting the less fortunate in the country. More than 32,000 people were displaced in Kisumu after River Nyando burst its banks and backflow from Lake Victoria flooded the area. The response team will cover Kisumu and Siaya counties. Anyolo said livelihood activities have been hampered, making most people lack food on their tables. “We pray that God, the divine labourer helps the world and opens the ways for us to carry on with human labour which puts food on our tables in the families,” he said. The coronavirus, he said, has triggered an economic crisis that has caused much suffering. The depression in people’s hearts is growing deeper, he added. Anyolo said the loss of jobs and businesses has taken a toll on many families in the country, leading to a rise in cases of domestic and gender-based violence. “We need urgent interventions to enable every Kenyan to stay safe and healthy. We must have a multi-stakeholder approach to prevent further spread of the virus,” he said. The government cannot do it alone, but it requires every citizen to combat the virus, Anyolo said. He expressed fears that the pandemic will hit the country’s most vulnerable people the hardest. The includes 2.5 million Kenyans living in informal settlements. Anyolo further asked Kenyans to keep social distancing, wear face masks and wash their hands with soaps. (edited by o. owino)