Hundreds of people across Kisii county are spending nights in the cold after heavy rains destroyed their homes. In Magenche ward in Bomachoge Borabu subcounty, more than 60 families have been displaced by a landslide that destroyed their houses. Dozens of others fled their houses after water began seeping through the floors.  Many of those affected are now camping on hilltops with little to eat. At Motaranda area, six families were left homeless after a landslide flattened their homes and uprooted trees. "It is a scene from hell. We, however, thank God they were rescued," said area MP Zadok Ogutu. The situation has forced several more families living near the area to relocate. More rains pounded the area over the weekend and on Monday morning. Meteorologists said the rains will not subside soon. Magenche MCA Timothy Ogugu described the situation as dire. Those displaced need food and tents, he told the Star. "The little assistance we have so far given out isn't enough and we may need the government to augment these efforts," Ogugu said. He donated food worth Sh20,000 to some families in the area. Even then, he said it was a drop in the ocean and urged well-wishers to help. MP Ogutu said the 50 sacks of maize and other food sent to the region was too little.  "We appeal for quick help lest diseases break out in the places they are camping," he said. Many of the affected families said the donations were little. Others accused local chiefs of hoarding the donations given by the MP. They called on Governor James Ongwae to tour the scene of devastation with donations. "We want him to come here. We are suffering, we need tents. Our houses have been destroyed and we have no other place to go for now," said Ombongi Mariachana, a resident. At least 12 houses were demolished by a massive landslide on Thursday afternoon in the area. Three residents escaped death by a whisker. They had hardly left their house to safer grounds amid the torrents when their home was brought down, Gladys Mogucha said. "God pulled me and my children from the jaws of death," she said. Joel Omagwa, another resident, faulted the government for dragging its feet to reach the scene. "Days after this incident only the MCA has been here. We have not seen the Red Cross or the county disaster team," he said. County executive for Disaster Timothy Kambuni said more places are grappling with mudslides and they have begun scrambling teams to help. At Eberege in South Mugirango, Kambuni said they were responding to distress calls from families affected by floods. Residents have returned to camps at Nyabworoba area in Marani, Kitutu Chache North. Some of the families had been at the camps since a faultline appeared at Manga escarpment causing cracks on houses. More than 157 people are still in the camp at Nyabworoba primary and secondary schools. They have been there for more than three months, with leaders asking the government to dispatch geologists to conduct studies and assess if the area is safe for habitation. Area MCA Paul Angwenyi said the residents' waiting has turned into frustration. At Motaranda in Magenche, similar calls were made for geologists to unravel the mystery behind the massive landslide. Edited by Henry Makori