Flood control and restoring destroyed road networks in Hulugho, Dadaab, Ijara and Fafi subcounties are top priorities for Garissa county's economic recovery. County commissioner Meru Mwangi said on Thursday thousands of livelihoods have been hurt by the flooding. Businesses in the three subcounties are unlikely to recover without road rehabilitation, he said. Speaking to the press in his office, Mwangi said the flooding problem needs urgent attention as it has worsened over three years. Those who depended on the River Tana for their livelihood no longer can do so, he said. He said the water at Masinga dam in the last month rose to unprecedented levels since the dam was built in 1981 and displaced more families and destroyed more livelihoods than at any other time in recent history. The commissioner said there are proposals to construct dykes and dams between Masinga dam and Garissa town to tap floodwaters before they cause flooding downstream. "We shall engage local leadership on the proposals so we come up with homegrown solutions to the menace," Mwangi said. "We were faced with floods in December last year. In January, the desert locusts destroyed our vegetation and farms. Shortly after, we were faced with the coronavirus and now more floods. We need a well-thought-out strategy to get back on our feet," he said. The measures outlined by President Uhuru Kenyatta for a recovery plan will form the basis to prioritise the county's recovery. The recruitment of intern teachers to fill in vacancies left by non-local teachers transferred by the TSC due to insecurity will also be given priority. "Most schools are faced with an acute shortage of teachers following the transfer of our non-local teachers. Funds set aside for the recruitment of teachers in the President's plan will come in handy.” He urged residents to adhere to health guidelines to stop the spread of the coronavirus. "If we have to go back to our daily lives earlier than expected, then we must follow the government directives in stopping the spread of this disease," he said. (Edited by V. Graham)