A Geneva-based human rights lobby wants UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres to pressure the Kenyan government to stop extrajudicial measures adopted by the police when enforcing curfew. The UN Watch, which oversights the United Nations, was reacting to an opinion piece that gave a damning assessment of the manner in which the state has responded to the coronavirus. It was authored by regional and international affairs commentator Patrick Gathara and published by the Washington Post last week. "Why is the UN silent?" the lobby asked in a tweet directed at Guterres. The Washington Post piece detailed the missteps attributed to the government in handling the outbreak, especially the excesses of police whose performance has suggested they were not equipped in handling the public to keep them safe from the infection. More than 15 people have so far died from police shooting or brutality, raising concerns over the approach of law enforcement officials to the anti-Covid-19 response. In some instances, officers have been reported to have arrested people from their private cars or houses for not wearing masks. Local lobbies such as the Civil Society Reference Group have said the high-handed and threat-based approach by government officials at the national and county levels were impeding the success of the interventions as they scare away the public rather than working with them. “Instead, the government needs to include public and opinion leaders, including from civil society groups, in the prevention and containment measures to shore up uptake of public health directives,” it said. Involving police officers at every level of the response, rather than opinion leaders and respected voices nationally and at local levels, will only make citizens continue viewing government measures as harassment, the lobby said. Forced quarantining of people found outside their homes or houses after the onset of curfew hours at their expense is part of that, it added. “This decision [was] ill-informed and only served to reinforce the publicly held view that the measures were not designed to achieve the legitimate cause of containing coronavirus but to punish those found to have breached the regulations and guidelines,” it said. Further, the lobby argues that expensive advertisements on national televisions and radio stations would not yield much, and the state should opt for community-based public health education as "...the impact of these infomercials are minimal on the perception of individuals and communities on the risks and dangers of Coronavirus”. Engaging clerics, traditional leaders and civil society actors at all levels of society, in this respect, would have been helpful to persuade rather than coerce the public into adopting the guidelines issued to contain the spread of the virus. The lobby proposes that every time the national and county leaders such as President Uhuru Kenyatta, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe and governors address the nation on the subject, they should involve opinion leaders to “help reinforce the government messaging in a more persuasive manner, as opposed to the threatening approach”. (Edited by F'Orieny)