Is ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru uncomfortable with the findings of a task force on the Improvement of Government Information and Public Communications? He received the report - 'Winning Public Trust' - on December 16 last year and promised to make it public. Since then, however, the report has been gathering dust despite millions spent on it. Could the contents of the David Makali-led team have made the CS shy away from sharing it? The task force studied policies and laws on public communication and information. A little bird tells Corridors one highlight is that government information is full of gaps and inadequacies, resulting in public mistrust. *** A senior cop is the talk of one of the towns at the periphery of the Nairobi metropolis for allegedly snatching an industrial worker’s wife. The man, said to be having an appetite for married women, took the mother of two away from her house having dated the woman for some time. The woman is currently embroiled in a child custody battle with her husband, of which they have agreed to share bills, food, clothing, and fees for their children. Those in the know say that the officer has kept sending messages laced with threats to those opposed to his bad habits. *** Ever since it emerged that the Directorate of Criminal Investigations is probing allegations of irregular finances in the Kakamega county government, senior officials at the devolved unit have been panicking. The DCI has summoned 17 officials for questioning over abuse of office and improper use of millions of shillings. One member of the Executive reportedly has vowed not to go down alone. He is said to be ready to provide detectives with the information they may need to press charges. Some officials have asked for more time before they can present themselves to detectives. Could they be attempting to clean up their closets before questioning? *** An MP from the North Rift is a man on the run after he failed to secure employment in the military for a resident some two years ago. The legislator is said to have received Sh250,000 from the parents of the youthful job seeker. When it became clear that the job could not be secured, the MP promised to refund the cash to the family. But for months now, nothing has been forthcoming. The legislator has been dodging the family and is no longer picking their calls. A confidant of the legislator said the MP had promised four youths employment and collected an equal amount from each. He said the MP secured two positions and refunded one job seeker his money. 