Police manning the Lamu-Garsen Road are on the spot for allegedly taking bribes and allowing in travellers from Covid-19 hit counties such of Kilifi and Mombasa. On April 8, the national government banned  movement in and out of Mombasa, Kwale and Kilifi in an attempt to contain the spread of coronavirus. Despite the ban, however, it has been established that movement of people and vehicles from the three counties continues unabated,  a situation that risks an outbreak of Covid-19 in Lamu. So far, Lamu is among counties that are yet to register a  positive case. While there have been efforts to ensure  no case is reported, police officers manning the various roadblocks between Lamu and Mombasa have been accused of sabotaging these measures. The bribes range between Sh200 and Sh1,000 at each roadblock. There are five police roadblocks on the route at Ndeu, Witu, Itsowe, Gamba and Minjila areas. It has also been confirmed that some residents of Mombasa and Kilfii have devised clever ways of entering Lamu through 'panya' routes  inside the forest and bushes to beat the partial lockdown. Many are now accessing Lamu using the Kipini route on the Tana River border as its less policed. Locals and leaders are concerned that there could be a full blown outbreak of the Covid-19 in the region, if measures aren’t taken to stop people from counties hit by the disease from entering Lamu. “The carelessness is on another level. Police are taking bribes from travellers coming from Mombasa and Kilifi and allowing them to enter Lamu yet they know very well that doing so is dangerous. The police must be called out to stop endangering people’s lives for money,” Peter Mugambi, resident, said. Politicians and leaders in the region have also been on the spot for careless shuttling between counties already affected by Covid-19 and Lamu, risking transporting the virus. They are said to take advantage of their positions to pass through the roadblocks. “Local politicians are busy moving from Nairobi,Mombasa and Kilifi to Lamu and back. They then go around visiting people in the name of distributing aid. It’s dangerous and they know it,” Fatma Alawy, another resident, said. Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia admitted his office was aware of the movement. He warned that any police officer found engaging in graft at the roadblocks and failing to implement the President’s directive to stop movement will be sacked. Macharia also warned that those found sneaking into Lamu will be arrested and put into forced quarantine for 14 days at their own cost. EDITORS NOTE: Health CAS Rashid Aman on Sunday said quarantine centres will not be used to hold those who break the curfew, or arrested contravening Covid-19  directives. Instead, the Inspector General of Police has been directed to identify centres where such individuals will be held in line with social distancing requirement.  Edited by E.Kibii