The government has allayed fears that Covid-19 tests may be inaccurate. The assurance that the testing kits in Kenya are okay was prompted by a Thursday night warning by the US Food and Drug Administration that several countries including the US are considering retesting their masses after it emerged the tests previously carried out might have been faulty. On Friday, Health CAS Rashid Aman said Kenya has not started using any of the rapid diagnostic tests said to be having problems. The FDA warned that early data suggested that Abbott Laboratories’ rapid coronavirus test, touted by the Trump administration as a game changer, may return inaccurate and false negative results. The rapid test is an antibody-based test that detects antibodies in the blood and determines whether than individual was at some point exposed to the virus but does not tell whether the virus is actually present. “The test that we use is the standard nucleic acid test which, once it indicates positive,  tells you that the virus is present in the system of the individual. So it is the most confirmatory test for the presence of the virus,” Aman said. He said: “Generally, rapid diagnostic tests are based on antibody detection, hence there are some problems of specificity. That is, being able to pick the type of pathogen that you are looking for and also problems to do with sensitivity and accuracy.” At a past briefing, Health Director General Patrick Amoth ruled out the possibility of deploying the coronavirus rapid testing kits developed by Senegal since they are based on antibodies. The kits, which have put Senegal on a global map, will not only take under 10 minutes to do a test but also sell at Sh109  a piece. Researchers have started validation of the diagnostic testing to allow for home testing. Amoth said there might be high chances of false positives since the rapid test kits are not selective. “There are very many types of coronavirus. So even when you have a coronavirus that causes a mild cold the rapid kit will interpret it as Covid-19. Therefore you will be diagnosed as coronavirus positive yet you have the simple corona that causes a cold,” he said. However, the kits are good diagnostic equipment that can be used for research purposes like carrying out sero-prevalence surveys, he said.  - mwaniki fm