A woman who wanted to evict her son's widow from the family home in Dagoretti will have to co-exist with her after the appellate court held that none of them has the exclusive right to the home. That state of affairs remains until the estate of the late James Muhu Kang’ari is distributed and the rights of all the beneficiaries of the property in question are determined, the Court of Appeal ordered. Justices Wanjiru Karanja, Fatuma Sichale and Jamila Mohammed ruled that Serah Mweru Muhu and daughter-in-law Sarah Wangari Kang'ari will remain on the property until a succession case in court is determined. Wangari is the widow of Joseph Kang’ari Muhu, son of Mweru and James Kang'ari. Joseph and his family lived on the same property with his parents in Dagoretti. He built a house and his children were born there. Mweru says Joseph and his wife were accommodated in her guest wing, but the daughter-in-law maintains that her “matrimonial home” was separate from the parents’ house. Trouble began after Joseph died. The relationship between the two women deteriorated to the point that Mweru asked her son’s widow to vacate the home as they could no longer live together. Wangari protested, arguing that she had nowhere to go as that was the place she and her children knew as home. The mother-in-law moved to court vide an application dated February 12, 2015, seeking orders to restrain Wangari from interfering with her occupation and enjoyment of the home. She wanted her to move to another house in Dagoretti allegedly given to her husband. But the widow resisted, maintaining that she had lived on the property with her husband for 35 years. Her children, she said, had been born and raised on that property and knew no other home. Justice William Musyoka, who heard the case at the High Court, ruled in favour of the mother-in-law and gave Wangari three months to vacate the home. The daughter-in-law was unhappy and appealed against the ruling, insisting that Mweru does not have the right to evict her. It was her view at the appellate court that Musyoka misinterpreted the will of her father-in-law and that the property in question is a matrimonial home for both of them. As such, none of them has any right over the other, she said. The property was not bequeathed to anyone and was supposed to be transferred to Muhu Holdings. Mweru insisted that the home is her matrimonial property and that there is only one house which belongs to her. The appellate judges noted that Kang'ari's will did not identify either of them as the exclusive beneficiary of the estate. “From our above analysis and in view of the contents of the declaration of trust and our interpretation of the clause therein, we arrive at the conclusion that the first respondent (mother-in-law) does not have any superior right to the property in question…,” the judges ruled.  - mwaniki fm               