There is no end in sight to the Jubilee Party  wrangles after secretary general Raphael Tuju published the contested list of National Management Committee members. Tuju published the names in a local daily on May 2. They are Lucy Nyaguthii Macharia, Marete Marangu, Walter Nyambati, Jane Nampaso and James Waweru. Deputy secretary Caleb Kositany, an ally of Deputy President William Ruto,  accused Tuju of disregarding their wishes and breaking the law for the second time. He said the Registrar of Political Parties wrote to Tuju asking him to activate the party’s dispute resolution mechanisms when the list was disputed, but he did not. “There has been no National Executive Council meeting, no dispute resolution meeting. Why did he publish the names without any resolutions?” he posed. He maintained that the names as illegal since the people on the list are not members of the NEC. “It is regrettable that Tuju now thinks he can just run the party without consulting the party organs,” he said. Kositany insisted that they will continue to demand for a dispute resolution meeting to resolve the matter. It is believed that President Uhuru now has full control of the party after removing officials in the NMC, who were affiliated to Ruto. Kositany further dismissed as fake a list of Jubilee MPs who have been invited to State House on Tuesday. The list doing round on social media indicates 58 MPs have been invited by Uhuru for a meeting and none of the legislators allied to Ruto are in it. “I have not been invited but I just want to point out that the list is fake because there can never be such a meeting when we are all practising social distancing,” Kositany stated. Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege concurred and said the party cannot meet at the height of Covid-19. “The list doing rounds that people have been invited to State House is fake. Everybody is keeping social distance,” she said. She added that it is not time to politic but to focus on fighting the spread of coronavirus. “You saw there were very few people who attended the Labour Day celebrations,” she said. Her Kiambu counterpart, Gathoni wa Muchomba, also dismissed the list as fake. “I have not received any call from State House. Kindly get in touch with the person coming up with the list,” she said. Edited by E.Kibii