The Environment ministry has roped in senior government officials to help it increase Kenya's forest cover amid challenges posed the coronavirus crisis. The ministry is using PSs to plant 31,501 trees in 79 acres in Nairobi. The sites have already been identified. Kenya is keen to achieve 10 per cent forest cover in two years as envisaged by the Constitution. About Sh48 billion is needed. The country needs to plant and protect 1.8 billion seedlings between now and 2022. The pandemic has, however, forced the downscaling of activities in line with guidelines and recommendations issued by the Ministry of Health. Plans to roll out mass tree planting in public primary and secondary schools were suspended after the institutions were closed due to the coronavirus crisis. “The downscaled tree planting programme will be implemented in all the 47 counties under the direction of respective county environment committees,” the ministry said. The ministry has also been encouraging Kenyans to plant trees in their farms. It said arrangements will be made for families and individuals who live close to public forests to facilitate planting on public land. The Kenya Forest Service has already developed protocols on how to go about tree planting during the ongoing pandemic. On May, 1, Environment PS Chris Kiptoo, Devolution's Charles Sunkuli, Paul Maringa (Infrastructure), Dr Margaret Mwakima (Regional and Northern Corridor Development) and Peter Kaberia (Mining) planted 500 seedlings in Lenana block, Ngong Road. On May 4, 200 seedlings were planted in 0.49 acres at Junction,Langata Road. The exercise was led by Maringa and Heritage PS Josephta Mukobe. On May 5, 500 seedlings were planted in Karura Forest's Wangari Maathai Corner covering 1.2 acres. Present were Colleta Suda (PS, Gender Affairs) and Kevit Desai (PS, East Africa Community). On the same day, 200 trees were planted in Njiru subcounty in 0.49 acres in an event presided over by Interior PS Karanja Kibicho and his Public Works counterpart Maj Gen (Rtd) Gordon Kihalangwa. Another 2,000 trees were planted on May 5 in Kibiku Forest in an area covering 4.9 acres. The planting was overseen by PS Ali Noor Ismail (Cooperatives), Susan  Mochache (Health), Hamadi Boga (Crop Development) and Micheni Ntiba (Fisheries). On the same day, some 1,000 seedlings were planted at Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company site in Njiru subcounty covering 2.4 acres. The exercise was led by Joseph Irungu (PS, Water, Sanitation and Irrigation), Nicholas Muraguri (Lands), Enosh Momanyi (Physical Planning), Charles Hinga (Housing) and Maj Gen Abdalla Badi (head of Nairobi Metropolitan Services). On May 6, 5,000 trees were planted in Ngong Hills, Lekuruki site, covering  12 acres. Joseph Kinyua, Head of Public Service, Mary Kimonye (PS, Public Service), Julius Muia (National Treasury), Saitoti Torome (Planning), Amb Macharia Kamau (Foreign Affairs), Joseph Njoroge (Energy), Nzioka Waita (Chief of Staff, Office of the President) were present. Some 1,000 trees were planted the same day in Ololua Forest, Ebulbul, covering 2.4 acres. Ibrahim Mohamed (Defence), Fred Segor (Wildlife), Kennedy Ogeto (Solicitor General) and Jerome Ochieng (ICT) took part. On May 8, 2,000 more trees will be planted in Lenana block, Ngong Forest, covering 4.9 acres and will be presided over by Interior CS Fred Matiang'i. 