Chemelil Sugar co-owner Moses Adagala has expressed faith that the Sports Disputes Tribunal will overturn Football Kenya Federation's decision to conclude the 2019-2020 season. Chemelil secured an early lead in their pursuit to reverse the decision after the tribunal temporarily suspended the FKF verdict pending the hearing set for May 26. Adagala, who took over the Chemelil reins in Januar,  exuded confidence that the tribunal will render FKF's resolution to finish the top-flight competition without the blessings of KPL null and void. The vocal chairman, who has been a fierce critic of FKF president, Nick Mwendwa and his office, faulted the latter for sniffing into KPL affairs contrary to the statutes which protect the competition from interference by third parties. Adagala, who also doubles up as Muhoroni Youth chairman, said FKF had unprocedurally concluded the season and it was just a matter of time before the tribunal affirms it. He condemned Mwendwa for single-handedly coming up with the decision in contravention of article 2.3.3 which vests the power to terminate the season in the FKF National Executive Committee. The tribunal had earlier this year thrown out the committee, citing an expiry of their mandate. "Mwendwa has no powers to conclude the KPL competition and I have faith that the tribunal will reverse his decision which was made in bad faith. "He is aware that top-flight matters should be handled by KPL who, in this case, allege that they were not consulted. "Even if it was necessary to finish the season, he still can't make that decision since the law reserves the right to end a season prematurely to the NEC who were kicked out of office after their tenure expired," he said. Adagala, in the meantime, revealed that his team was gearing up for a top ten finish should the tribunal direct that the remaining matches be played. He said despite the sugar millers languishing in the relegation zone, a top ten finish would be tenable through winning the five fixtures set to be played at home. "When I took over, I invested in excess of Sh5 million in the club and managed to arrest the poor run. The club had only managed to gather four points but within a short time, we managed to double our tally and we were keen to beat the drop," he affirmed. He added: "Should the court order the remaining matches to be played, we will be targeting to finish within the top ten bracket. We just have to win our five home matches and try to reap positive results in the four away matches," he added.