Four entertainment joints in Kilimani have suffered a major setback after the High Court declined to suspend a decision compelling the Nairobi government to revoke their business permits. Environment and Land Court judge Loise Komingoi last October compelled Nema and the county government to revoke the licences of Kiza, Space Lounge, Tavern and B Concept following complaints about noise pollution by Kilimani residents. The judge further declared that the business permits and liquor licences issued to the clubs by the Alcoholic Drinks and Licensing Board and the county for them to operate their businesses in the manner complained of by the residents were illegal. Aggrieved by the decision, the clubs filed an application seeking suspension of the decision to allow them file an appeal. But Komingoi on Thursday refused, saying granting such a request would be detrimental to the residents of Kilimani. “I already made a determination that the clubs ought not to be operating in a residential area. None of the clubs have demonstrated the substantial loss they will suffer,” she said. The residents through lawyer Cecil Miller welcomed the decision and urged the Nairobi Metropolitan Services to review the licensing of clubs in residential areas. They want NMS director general Mohammed Badi to intervene and have residents appointed on the licensing boards and actively enforce zoning bylaws and noise and excessive vibration pollution regulations. “The decision of the court indicts not only the clubs for refusing to institute adequate sound proofing but the county of Nairobi, Nema, alcohol licensing boards and the National Police Service for failing o effectively and consistently protect the health, safety and peace of residents,” Miller said. During hearing of the application for stay, residents cited a shooting incident at B Club involving Embakasi MP Babu Owino and a DJ who remains hospitalised. The residents said the incident demonstrated that the club had no control over its clientele. But the clubs B Club and Tavern argued they would suffer substantial loss in terms of investment of Sh150 million and Sh50 million, respectively, if the closure notices were effected. They also argued that the livelihoods of over 70 and 50 employees, respectively, would be at stake if the establishments were closed. But the judge said the clubs had not met the conditions for the court to suspend its earlier decision. Edited by Henry Makori