 Nyeri MCAs have directed the executive to provide documents showing the approval for the dumping of garbage at Karindundu in Mathira constituency. The county assembly wants the executive to provide a statement, a copy of the minutes and an approval certificate from the National Environment Management Authority. Speaker John Kaguchia made the ruling after Konyu MCA Eric Wamumbi on Wednesday requested a statement from the executive and the two documents. Wamumbi requested for Nema's approval and minutes of public participation, if any, arguing that there must have been consultations before turning the area into a dumping site. Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua said the county government was dumping waste in the area illegally as there was no approval from Nema. Kaguchia said the statement and the documents are expected at the assembly on Thursday this week. He, however, told the Star the assembly will be guided by the request from the MCA. The MCA can bring a motion or request a report to be done from the statement by the environment committee, then they can have a motion based on the report. “Everything now will depend on what comes first. It will also depend on what action the MCA would expect because he is the one aggrieved,” Kaguchia said. MCA Wamumbi said if the executive fails to produce the two documents, he is ready to sue the county’s environment department for infringing on people’s rights. “If there was no approval, it means they have been dumping garbage there illegally and therefore affecting the lives of the people,” the MCA said. Wamumbi said residents have been complaining of respiratory problems because of the toxic fumes emanating from the dumpsite. The county is currently facing a garbage disposal crisis after it was barred from dumping at Karindundu dumpsite. Garbage collection in Nyeri town has been halted for about two weeks following the stand-off between Mathira leaders and the county administration. Environment executive Beth Karimi last week said the county is looking for an alternative to ensure that garbage in the county's towns is managed through sorting and burning. But Wamumbi dismissed Karimi’s claims, saying the county government has zero plans on garbage management. “The problem with the county government is that when they decide to dump, they don’t involve other leaders or the people through public participation. People just wake up to find garbage dumped in the neighbourhood,” he said. Governor Mutahi Kahiga told the Star last week that the row had nothing to do with garbage but a personal feud between the executive and the MCA. “CEC Karimi and MCA for Konyu can solve their personal differences without the interference of either the Mathira MP or myself,” the governor said. But Wamumbi denied having any personal issues with the CEC, saying the only issue he has with her is the dumping of garbage in his ward. “I find it very unprofessional for the governor to say the issue is personal. He would have called both of us and try to understand the matter,” Wamumbi said. The MCA said he stopped the dumping after residents told him they did not want garbage there. Wamumbi ordered county officials out of the dumping site in a video that was being circulated on social media. Konyu residents have also passed on the same message to MP Gachagua, he said. “There was a meeting chaired by the MP where they also told him they don’t want the Nyeri town, Mukurwe-ini and Tetu subcounties garbage to be disposed in Mathira,” he said. The Nyeri government has been disposing garbage at Karindundu after it rehabilitated Asian Quarters where the town’s waste was being dumped. Wamumbi accused the governor of embarking on building of the Sh600 million termini before first looking for an alternative dumpsite. The governor launched the construction of the terminus in June 2019 but the approval by Nema was done almost a year later in April 2020. Wamumbi said the governor should involve other leaders in coming up with garbage management policies, otherwise he will have no solution to the problem. Edited A.N