Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha has been criticised by the Economic Freedom Party for saying the examination calendar for this year remains as scheduled earlier. EFP National Chairman Issack Hassan Abey said on Thursday that the pronouncement by Education CS when he appeared before the Departmental Committee on Education. Abey said that the Constitution guarantees every child the right to free and compulsory education, devoid of any form of discrimination be it in gender, region or socio-economic background. "It is on this background that we as Economic Freedom Party (EFP) are alarmed by the pronouncement by Education Cabinet Secretary Prof George Magoha that national exams will go on as was scheduled," Abey said. He said that there is a lot of anxiety concerning the fate of 1.2 million KCPE and 700,000 KCSE candidates set to seat for their final examination at the end of the year. The party has also dismissed Magoha's remarks that most students can access e-learning while at home. Magoha had said that most of the secondary school students have smartphones which enables them to access internet. The party has said that the situation in the North Eastern region is worse since the majority of learners cannot access radio, TV, or the internet. "Learners in this region may not cover the syllabus even if schools were to be opened next month," he said. The party chairman said learning in the region was paralysed even before the nationwide closure of learning institutions. "Learning in this region stopped way before the viral pandemic. When the year began, a total of 2,340 non-local teachers were transferred following a terror attack in January," he said. "The incident triggered the mass transfer of non-local teachers from Garissa, Mandera and Wajir, in a development that disrupted learning in the marginalised region." He added that students have lost much time at home since the closure on March 15, which was three weeks earlier than planned and that re-opening for the second term has also been extended by another month. "With this worrying scenario, the ministry has to come up with a clear roadmap on how schools in North Eastern are going to catch up with the rest of the country before they are subjected to a national exam," Abey said. He further said that it would be atrocious to test the learners on a syllabus they have not covered and expect them to compete fairly with their fellow learners from other areas. "We ask the ministry to engage stakeholders in the sector in coming up with a proper plan for the country’s education, and ensure equality in our education system," he said. Education PS Belio Kipsang had stated that e-learning programs being offered will not be featured in the final exams. "We will ensure that the current coping mechanisms set up, including the e-learning, are not part of our examinations so that none of our children are disadvantaged from lack of accessing the virtual lessons," PS Kipsang said.