Education CS George Magoha has appointed a 10-member team to look into the reopening of schools following the coronavirus pandemic. The committee is expected to explore ways to restore normalcy in the basic education sector’s academic calendar. The team, chaired by Kenya Institute for Curriculum Development Chairperson Sarah Ruto, will start work immediately, a statement from the Education Ministry said on Tuesday. Other members of the team are; Chairman, Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association Indimuli Kahi, Chairman, Kenya Primary Schools Heads Association Nicholas Gathemia, CEO, Kenya Private Schools Association Peter Ndoro and Chairman, Kenya Parents Association Nicholas Maiyo. Also in the team are Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops Augustine Muthigani, Kenya Association for Independent International Schools Jane Mwangi, National Council of Churches of Kenya's Nelson Makanda, Muslim Education Council's Sheikh Munawar Khan and Chairman, Kenya Special Schools Heads Association Peter Sitienei. Last week, Magoha said the reopening of schools depends on how the Covid-19 pandemic is managed. "Irrespective of what we are saying, the pandemic must come under control first. Everything else will have to follow. All these questions will depend on how the government will control the pandemic," he said when he appeared before the Parliament's Education Committee. The CS had earlier on extended school closure by another month from May 4 to June 4. Schools were to resume next month according to the measures presented by the ministry on how the government will compensate for the number of school learning days lost to the Covid-19 outbreak. In April, President Uhuru Kenyatta hinted at a partial reopening of schools and dismissed speculation that the KCPE and  KCSE exams could be cancelled. The President said the Education ministry was working on measures to enable candidates to sit the exams. Since schools were closed on March 15, the future of the candidates has been a subject of debate, with divergent opinions causing anxiety.