More than 425 people have been released from quarantine in Uasin Gishu after being arrested for defying curfew orders and measures against Covid-19. They were freed after two weeks of drilling on how to adhere to all measures by the government to stop the spread of the coronavirus. County commissioner Abdirisack Jaldesa and Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno said those released had been quarantined at Kaplelach High School, which still holds 127 people. Jaldesa said those released had undergone counselling and training and should be good examples to other residents in adhering to Covid-19 control measures. The quarantine centre was opened a month ago by the national government. Most of those in quarantined are women who were arrested for brewing illicit brew. “We will not allow the Covid-19 disease to wipe us out because of the careless attitude by a few people. We all have to work together and deal with this virus so that we can all resume our normal lives soon,” Chemno said. Chemno and Jaldesa were at the facility to address some of those released on the need to respect government regulations. The Moi Referral Hospital and the county health teams led the counselling. Overcrowding at the facility has also been a major concern amid fears that it could lead to the spread of the virus. However, Chemno and Jaldesa said all Covid-19 control measures are being applied at the facility. Governor Jackson Mandago has warned those found defying the regulations including those engaging in illicit brews that they will be arrested and detained at the centre. “We all to have to fully comply so that we work together in flattening the Covid-19 curve and go back to work. Those who don’t want to obey orders will be forced to do so," Mandago said. At the same time, police stations in Eldoret and other parts of the North Rift have been supplied with adequate protective equipment including masks to help officers enforcing precautionary regulations against Covid-19. Police commander Johnstone Ipara said the stations received the protection equipment and masks as donations from well-wishers. The Moi Referral Hospital has given out thermal guns to the stations to take temperatures. Ipara said all officers must use masks while on duty. Edited by R.Wamochie