Two weeks ago, Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko made an about-turn and denounced the Deed of functions transfer he had signed at State House. Many would interpret the move as defiance to President Uhuru Kenyatta and one meant to embarrass and portray him as a weak leader. Sonko, a former Uhuru ally, wanted to go down in history as a hero, who fearlessly engaged the President head-on. At State House, we saw the governor signing the documents on his own volition and the President being there as a witness, alongside Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka. The governor signed off the four key functions of Health, Transport, Public Works and Auxilliary services. The first meeting paved the way for public participation forums where the majority of Nairobians supported the President’s move. During the election campaigns, Sonko had promised to take us to Canaan. But after being elected, we realised he took us for a ride as he did not fulfill his pledges. Again the major cities across the world are run by the national governments, they submitted. In exercise of the power conferred on him by the Constitution, the President had the option of dissolving the county government and take over the operations. For Sonko, he would mince no word in telling off those who faulted his move and appeared to create the impression that he had been coerced to do so. “I was not forced to sign the Deed of Transfer. I know what I was doing. We had discussed this matter with the President for a long period. I made the right decision and it would better the lives of city residents,” he said. He said he needed Uhuru’s support to fight cartels. Sonko started then throwing the spanner in work soon after the NMS launched the roadmap to restore the glory of Nairobi. He has been alleging that Badi was interfering with his work at the behest of powerful forces in government. The aim is to reduce him to a lame-duck governor. How? He would not reveal the names or give any evidence. But didn’t he sign off voluntarily? Ndonga is a political analyst and blogger