Twenty-eight counties face a cash crisis after the Treasury withheld part of their disbursements for failure to clear pending bills. Five of the counties have received only about half of their annual allocation, with less than two months to the end of the 2019-20 financial year. Nairobi had by May 4 received only 51 per cent – the lowest percentage of disbursement of all the 47 counties. This translates to Sh8.07 billion out of the Sh15.91 billion it was allocated this fiscal year. It owes suppliers Sh7.15 billion. Isiolo, Siaya, Samburu and Turkana had all received only 55 per cent of their annual allocations as of last Monday because of their slow pace of settling the bills. The delayed allocations affected major development projects as most of the cash at the counties' disposal went to staff salaries. Some Sh2.32 billion out of the annual allocation of Sh4.24 billion has been released to Isiolo, Siaya has received Sh3.17 billion out of Sh5.79 billion while Samburu has so far received Sh2.53 out of Sh4.62 billion. Turkana county has only received Sh5.78 billion out of Sh10.53 billion. In November last year, Treasury CS Ukur Yatani withheld allocations to 35 counties for not clearing the bills despite President Uhuru Kenyatta’s directive. “In light of the fact that the National Treasury has consistently released full allocations of the equitable share of revenue due to the devolved units since the roll-out of the devolved system of government, there is no reason for nonpayment of eligible pending bills,” Yatani said in December last year. However, the High Court ordered the National Treasury to release the money after the Council of Governors sued it and the Controller of Budgets. Parliament declined Yatani’s request to withhold the funds. The President had during last year’s Madaraka Day celebrations ordered counties, state agencies, ministries and departments to clear their pending bills. The Public Finance Management Act demands that pending bills be cleared before any other payments are made in a new financial year. However, governors have lamented that the huge chunk of the debts was incurred by the defunct municipal and city councils. They have also complained about delayed disbursements and meagre own source collections for the ballooning bills. CoB Margaret Nyakang’o told the Senate Committee on Covid-19 Situation that 23 other counties have also received between 64 and 72 per cent – because of their poor performance on payment of debts. West Pokot, Vihiga, Narok, Nakuru, Migori, Marsabit, Machakos, Kisumu, Kirinyaga and Bomet have received 64 per cent of their total allocations. Bungoma, Busia, Garissa, Kiambu, Kisii, Mandera, Meru, Mombasa, Muranga, Tana River, Tharaka Nithi, Uasin Gishu and Wajir have received up to 72 per cent. In total, all the 28 counties owed their contractors and suppliers Sh16.19 billion as of April 30. Nine counties accounted for 83 per cent of the debt. These are Nairobi (Sh7.1 billion), Mombasa (Sh1.7 billion), Narok (Sh943.2 million), Isiolo (Sh851.6 million), Garissa (Sh644.3 million) and Kisumu (Sh637.8 million). Others are Vihiga (Sh540.3 million), Kirinyaga (Sh464.8 million) and Turkana (Sh448.2 million). “Although county governments have generally made significant efforts in clearing the eligible pending bills, the OCoB is concerned that nine counties still have huge outstanding balances and need to be observed closely,” Nyakang’o said in the report to the senators. Nineteen counties have cleared bills since the President directed they do so last year. They are Kajiado, Kakamega, Kericho, Kilifi, Kitui, Kwale, Laikipia, Lamu, Makueni, Nandi, Nyamira, Nyandarua, Nyeri and Taita Taveta. Trans Nzoia, Bungoma, Baringo, Elgeyo Marakwet, Embu and Homa Bay have also cleared their bills. This category has received 82 per cent allocation – the highest percentage of releases to their allocated equitable share. “This could be attributed to the counties’ demonstrated progress in settlement of pending bills as reported by the Office of the Auditor General,” Nyakang’o said in the report. However, eight counties have disputed some of their bills amounting to Sh819.61 million. The funds were verified and classified as eligible after an audit by former Auditor General Edward Ouko. They are Migori (Sh31.58 million), Siaya (105.09 million), Kisii (Sh15.76 million), Trans Nzoia (Sh6.89 million), Kirinyaga (Sh397.30 million), Busia (Sh1.25 million), Bomet (Sh144.48 million) and Garissa (Sh117.24 million). “These county governments have been advised to lodge their complaints with the OAG (Auditor General) for investigation and further direction,” CoB noted in the report. Nyakang’o said they are pushing all the counties to clear their eligible pending bills by June 30. According to the report, as of March 31, the CoB had authorised the release of Sh245.59 billion from the County Revenue Fund to County Operational Accounts of County Governments. These comprised Sh195.09 billion (79 per cent) for recurrent expenditure and Sh50.51 billion (21 per cent) for development expenditure. In the national government, Nyakang’o noted that state agencies, ministries and departments have paid Sh13.11 billion (99 per cent) out of the eligible Sh13.25 billion since the President gave the directive in June last year. “The National Treasury constituted a Pending Bills Multi-Agency Team (PB-MAT) to deal with the historical and contested bills,” she said. (edited by o. owino)