The Mandera county government has donated foodstuffs to the GK Prison and non-locals, mainly Christians, help them survive Covid-19 effects and flooding. Mandera prison officer in charge Francis Mulandi received rice, maize flour, beans and cooking oil to feed 100 prisoners. Special Programmes chief officer Ali Mahat and director Bishar Adan donated the food rations on behalf of the county. Mulandi and prisoners' representatives thanked the government for remembering the needy during the pandemic. Governor Ali Roba's administration also donated food to vulnerable non-local families, mostly Christians in Mandera town. More than 6,000 non-locals live in the border town; the county identified 200 of the "most vulnerable" through their leaders. The non-locals living in Mandera were led by Mark Wanjala, Lydia Nasike and private school teachers John Buti, known as Abdalla, and Victor Omweri. They said the food rations will spare them much suffering as Covid-19 had caused them to lose work and income. "Our work and businesses have been adversely hit by the coronavirus effects," Wanjala said. Omweri and Buti said the private school teachers have been surviving without pay since March when the schools closed. They have not been able to travel outside the county as it has been sealed off to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. More than 8,000 families affected by floods will receive 12.5 kgs of rice, four kilograms of beans and three litres of cooking oil. Mandera has recorded 18 cases of Covid-19 and has been labelled a pandemic hotspot due to its proximity to and porous border with Somalia and Ethiopia. The floods resulted from the River Daua bursing its banks, displacing hundreds of people from their farms and destroying crops. Sand harvesters living along the river were also displaced. Eight wards in the four subcounties along the river have been severely affected by flooding. In Mandera North, Neboi township, Khalalio and Libehia wards are the hardest hit. Rhamu and Rhamu Dimtu are also badly affected. In Lafey, Sala ward is the worst hit; Banisa's Malkamari ward residents also are suffering. The county's Special Programmes team says 5,437 people are to benefit from the food supply in Mandera East, 511 in Lafey, 1,694 in Mandera North and 587 in Banisa. Governor Roba expressed concern over the ravaging floods despite lack of rain in Mandera. However, it poured in the Ethiopia highlands, causing havoc downstream. He said there was a risk of spreading the coronavirus in overcrowded makeshift shelters for displaced persons. The county's food security has been threatened by floods, drought, the locust invasion and travel ban. These factors have caused the prices of food to triple during Ramadhan. Roba urged the Devolution ministry headed by CS Eugene Wamalwa to provide food aid and other support. (Edited by V. Graham)