The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has confirmed that 20 Kenyans abroad have lost their lives due to coronavirus related cases. The statement from the ministry on Sunday confirmed that the 20 lost their lives despite the efforts to protect and safeguard their interests. Out of the 20 deaths reported, 10 died in the US, four in the United Kingdom, two in Italy and one each in Switzerland, Saudi Arabia and Sweden. It said that it has been receiving frequent contact with Kenyan embassies in various countries since the outbreak of the virus. According to the ministry, about 3 million Kenyans are living in the diaspora, with the majority concentrated in North America (400,000), Middle East (150,000) Asia and Australia (30,000), Western Europe and southern Africa. It also said that many Kenyans in the diaspora tried to reach the government for help. “The ministry was only facilitating those stranded because of the suspension of international travel by many countries and can pay for their tickets,” part of the statement from the ministry read. Kenyans who were stranded in China arrived at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport on Sunday at 0245HRS  from Guangzhou with 165 passengers. The ministry said majority of the passengers who arrived from China are Kenyans impacted by the virus in terms of job losses, students who have completed their studies, business people caught in the lockdown and Kenyans caught on the wrong side of the law in China. Initially, 183 Kenyans had registered for travel but 9 students chose to withdraw due to academic considerations. On May 7, KQ flight with registration 205 from Mumbai, India landed at JKIA with 232 passengers. The ministry said it had expected 234 passengers in the flight but the others were stranded due to cancellation of flights. “The Ministry was expecting total of 234 Kenyans. Sorrowfully, and regrettably we lost one patient as she was about to board the aircraft in Ahmedabad, Gujarati,” the ministry said. Upon arrival, they were taken to various quarantine facilities of their choice. Also, the ministry said it has facilitated the evacuation both for medical and personal reasons, of 2,268 foreign nationals. A total of 11 medical evacuations have been facilitated by the government, with only a Kenyan national working with the UNHCR in South Sudan turning positive for the virus.