At least 40,000 people have been displaced by floods in Budalang’i, Busia county. MP Raphael Wanjala has called for urgent help from the national and county governments, saying residents are at risk because of congestion in camps. He said the camps are a potential risk for Covid-19 spread and cholera outbreak. Rescue teams from the Kenya Coast Guard Service, Kenya Red Cross Society and other humanitarian organisations have been evacuating residents as water from rivers Nzoia and Yala surges. “We have suffered for a long time because it was Lake Victoria that caused floods before the two rivers broke their banks. The problem is that many people feel threatened by River Nzoia forgetting that Yala also flows through Budalang’i constituency,” Wanjala said. “Half of Budalang’i is flooded and people's houses and properties were destroyed. The situation is worsening.” The hardest-hit places are Bunyala North, Khajula South, Bunyala Central, Bunyala East and Bunyala West. The MP said two people died after they were swept away by floodwaters. One was a student at Bunyala Technical Training Institute and the other a two-year-old girl from Busagwa village. Saturday and Sunday were busy days for the rescue teams. Residents were evacuated by boat while some waded through the water, carrying a few household items. “We are faced by the coronavirus pandemic but the government should consider floods as well. We have no houses, food and property. So I call for the government’s immediate intervention,” Wanjala said. On Sunday, a team from the Busia government and Lake Victoria North Water Works Development Agency toured the worst-hit areas to assess the water and sanitation needs in the 20 camps. The county department of health and sanitation has provided three vehicles to support evacuation. Bunyala North MCA Fredrick Musirimba said the displaced persons who have camped at St Peter's Ruambwa Primary School will be relocated to Namalo Primary School. Governor Sospeter Ojaamong was expected to meet MCAs from Budalang’i to discuss the way forward. Lake Victoria North Water Works Development Agency CEO Boniface Mulama said they will help prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the camp. “The agency has donated two 10,000-litre tanks at Nandekere and Namalo primary school camps to help in combating the Covid-19 pandemic and other waterborne diseases,” he said. County commissioner Joseph Kanyiri, who toured the flood-hit areas, urged residents to move to safe places. “There are people who have refused to leave their homes but there is nothing more precious than life. Don’t expect the government to send helicopters to save you,” he said. Kanyiri said the situation is appalling but government is doing everything possible to improve living conditions. “We will distribute rice and cooking oil because we have received support [in the form of] food items. We have also requested for more food support from the national government. Our health officers are ensuring that they treat and teach people about disease prevention,” he said. Wanjala said the government should focus on fighting coronavirus and helping flood victims. “The situation has forced us to use schools as camps and implementing the rule of social distancing is a challenge,” the MP said. Wanjala urged other stakeholders to join the government in the emergency operations. “The county was given money and it should start providing masks to the displaced persons. It should also deploy health officers to educate people about coronavirus and cholera prevention,” he said. Ojaamong visited Busagwa, Rukala and Ndekwe in Budalang’i South ward and promised to help affected families. He said with the allocation of Sh100 million in the supplementary budget, his government will procure safety implements such as masks, soap and sanitiser to flood victims. Edited by Frank Obonyo