Schools should not be opened unless, and until, there is enough and credible scientific evidence that it is safe for both students and teachers. The plan to reopen schools should not be an order or decree by Cabinet Secretary Prof George Magoha. It must be well informed and backed by sound evidence. Proper and clear regulations should be put in place before and after reopening and, most importantly, the reopening plan must enjoy the support of stakeholders. Magoha’s presentation to the Education Committee of the National Assembly is just a projection and presupposes that the virus is contained. The projection factors in the lost school time from when school were closed in March. They forecast that schools might be opened on June 4. However, we cannot put the lives of students and teachers in danger. The focus at the moment should be on how to contain the pandemic. Students come, naturally, from every part of the country and reopening the institutions will need thorough preparation and intense care that cannot be guaranteed when the risk of infection is still too high. South Africa tried to open schools and failed, so let’s not rush lest we get ourselves in a major catastrophe. Why are we talking about transition and examinations when the cases of corona are increasing? This is time to follow the guidelines set to stem any further spread of the disease. As for the recovery of time lost, teachers have always stood the test of time and been able to go the extra mile to recover lost time. In 1997, school operations were crippled in the third term by a teachers' strike. So was in October of 1998 and 2002. Subsequent strikes were those of 2009, 2012, 2013 and the longest that lasted for 35 days in 2015. In all these trying times teachers have triumphed, recovered time and posted remarkable performance in national examinations. As KNUT, we urge parents and students not to panic, teachers might even need a shorter period to recover the lost time than Magoha's proposal but only when it is safe. UNESCO has provided guidelines on how countries can reopen schools. The ministry should pick some of the recommendations. Writer: Wilson Sossion. {The writer is the Secretary General Kenya National Union of Teachers)