Interior CS Fred Matiang'i has asked Inspector General Hillary Mutyambai for a report into allegations of police misconduct contained in a viral video from one of the security checkpoints in Nairobi. In a tweet on Sunday, Matiang'i ordered Mutyambai and Nairobi Regional Police Commander Philip Ndolo to furnish him with a report in two hours. In the video, a police officer was confronted for allegedly damaging a truck ferrying essential goods. This was done after the truck was intercepted, ostensibly for moving after curfew hours. The driver, however, did not bow to the intimidation, waiving his documentation showing authorisation to transport goods past curfew hours. He followed the female officer, telling her to go to the station with him to record a statement, but she kept walking away, as other officers told the driver to record the statement himself because she was busy at work. "Let's go to the police station... you have damaged my truck... don't try to intimidate me, I have all my documentation and all the rights (to ferry goods)," the driver said. He went on to say that the incident would not go unpunished. "Let's go to Riruta police station... the damage will be a cost to me... this is a work vehicle," the driver said. A report by the Independent Medico-Legal Unit (IMLU) showed police have injured 30 while enforcing the curfew to curb the spread of the coronavirus. IMLU also said 41 people were tortured by police during the 7pm to 5am curfew period that started on March 27. “During this period, we have monitored and documented 41 cases of police torture, cruel, inhumane and degrading treatment perpetrated by law enforcement agencies and an assistant chief. Out of the 41 torture cases, 11 were deaths and the rest were injuries from torture and ill-treatment,” the IMLU said. The NGO called on the police to uphold human rights while enforcing the curfew. IMLU also commended police officers who have worked tirelessly, often in difficult circumstances, to enforce the curfew and other preventive measures under the Public Order Act and Public Health Act. “We also stand with the frontline teams of medical personnel in our health facilities and public health staff and volunteers working across communities," the  IMLU said. “We commend the majority of Kenyans who have heeded the advisories from the World Health Organization and our Ministry of Health, greatly contributing to preventing infections.”