GORDON OSEN/ Let he who does not work not eat, the holy book says. For Pauline Kageha Amadala, this dictum was literal. When it would be supper time, that would also be time to audit who did what in the day. She would ask her four children what they did in the day and who completed the tasks they were assigned. If you did not do your chores, then there would be no supper for you even if you are the one who cooked it. The disciplinarian mother who raised and educated the four children succumbed to bile duct cancer on April 28, 2020, aged 61. And when she would return home and find any of the kids having a foreign item that she did not recognize, she would have them return them to the owner, but not before a good share of caning. Victor Amadala, a business reporter with this paper and who is one of the sons, said his mum was not just good in administering discipline, she was self-disciplined, humble, diligent and painstaking, explaining the reason she worked as a house manager for a Kenyan-Indian family for over 30 years. “Mum had a remarkable sense of discipline and hard work and that is why she worked as a house manager for this long, the same job she did while raising us up. Through it we all went to school to the highest level,” Amadala said. But even more remarkable was her love for God and how she took personal keenness to ensure her kids carried the culture even when adults. She would call her children on Sundays to find out whether they went to church or whether they sent their tithes and offerings if they missed. “If she found that you had missed church for two consecutive Sundays, you had to go home in Mathare area and explain,” he explained. A believer at Friends Church, Amadala said his mum was working to guide Runda Sub Local Friends Church into attaining self-governance after being sent there by Muthaiga Friends Church. She was also a commissioner in the church’s nomination committee. She was also mother to Carolyne Moroyo, Humphrey Amadala and Kate Muchesia. She was blessed with two grandchildren: Nonie Iminza and Precious Tania. She is survived by a widower, Tom Mwanje. Mama Amadala was born to the late Philip and Torokasi Amadala of Munugi village, Vihiga county. She was the secondborn in a family of eight siblings: Christopherh Lubafu, Eshmael Avude, Beatrice Munagi, late Rose Nyangasi, Edith Ijayi, Catherine Amagove and Nancy Angutwa. She was buried on Saturday at her Moi Farm home, Moi’s Bridge, Trans Nzoia county. Amadala said his mother epitomised patience, tolerance and resilience. “She exhibited unrivalled leadership skills at the family, community and church.”