Kenya on Wednesday recorded 123 new cases of Covid-19, raising the country's total number to 1,471, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has said. This is the largest number recorded since the first case on March 13. The new cases were out of the 3,077 samples that were tested in the last 24 hours. This is also the largest number of tests that have been done so far. Of the new cases, Nairobi had 85 cases, Mombasa, 24 and Kiambu four. Other counties with cases are Kajiado (3) and Kisumu two cases. Garissa, Kitui, Kilifi, Busia and Uasin Gishu counties have a case each. The spread of the cases by sub-counties is as follows; the cases in Nairobi; Mathare (33), Kibra (14), Embakasi West (12), Embakasi Central (4), Westlands (4), Makadara (3), Ruaraka (3), Kamukunji (3), Starehe (2), Dagoretti North (2), Roysambu, Langata,  Embakasi East  and Embakasi South having one case each. In Mombasa, the cases are in Mvita (9), Changamwe and Kisauni have four cases each, Jomvu and Likoni three cases each and Nyali one case. In Kiambu, the cases are one each in Kabete, Kikuyu, Ruiru and Juja. Cases in Kajiado are two cases in Namanga and one case in Kitengela, while the two cases in Kisumu are from quarantine facilities. The two cases are imports from Nairobi of persons who travelled to Kisumu for a burial. According to age distribution, the youngest is a one-year-old baby, while the oldest is 76 years. By gender, 78 are males and 45 are females. Three more patients have been discharged bringing the number of recoveries to 408. The cumulative figure of those who are positive stands at 1,471 from a total of 67,341 samples tested. Three more people have died of Covid-19, raising the number to 55. All of the patients had pre-existing conditions; two had diabetes and one had hypertension. "When testing is happening, kindly volunteer yourself...," Kagwe said. "People die alone... so it is important to protect yourself." Kagwe reiterated President Uhuru Kenyatta's message last Saturday that it is up to Kenyans to look after themselves and their neighbours in the war on the coronavirus. "There cannot be 47 million police officers for every Kenyan... we must cooperate," he said.