President Uhuru Kenyatta might come face-to-face with Deputy President William Ruto should the second-in-command join the head of state to mark Madaraka Day celebrations. Ruto was conspicuously absent during Labour Day celebrations on May 1 held at State House in Nairobi. Uhuru, Central Organisation of Trade Union secretary general Francis Atwoli led the celebrations. Ruto was present at State House on March 21 when Uhuru hosted the National Prayer Day against the Covid-19 pandemic. The Madaraka Day celebrations come at a time when the relationship between the two is at an all-time low. Uhuru and Ruto have not been seen in public together ever since the President embarked on an offensive to regain full control of Jubilee Party. A source told the Star Ruto has been lined up as one of the speakers at the national event. “I have seen the programme. Ruto will be invited to speak by Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and after addressing the nation, he will invite the President to give his keynote address,” he said. Though he did not attend the official Labour Day function, the DP celebrated healthcare and other frontline workers who are leading the fight against Covid-19. “We honour all non-essential and self-employed workers who have weathered the coronavirus disruptions to display their audacity and commitment to get work done,” he said on Twitter Only 30 people have been invited to attend Madaraka Day celebrations at State House as a measure to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The celebrations had initially been been scheduled to be held in Kisii. Political analyst Danstan Omari noted that Madaraka Day is a national event which the Deputy President must grace. “By law, he is the only one who is supposed to call the President to address the nation. Hate him or like him, nobody can do that function,” he said. Omari further said the event is not a Jubilee function and hence Ruto has to be given his rightful place. “It is the reality. ODM leader Raila Odinga will not feature anywhere in the ceremony,” he explained. He added that State House operatives may want to erect roadblocks to prevent the Deputy President from attending. “You have heard that everybody will be screened for Covid-19 before they get in,” he stated. Omari further said the Deputy President has the option of inviting the President to address the nation virtually. “If they don’t want him at State House, he might as well invite the President via Zoom from his Karen home,” he added. Joseph Mutua, a political analyst, said Ruto is expected to attend and failing to show up would mean his relationship with the President had reached a point of no return. “If he is officially invited and fails, it would mean that the differences between the two are irreconcilable,” he explained. Mutua added that attending, on the other hand, would not make a lot of difference in the relationship between the two leaders. “If he goes, his message would be that he has no problem with the President and it is the head of state who has a problem with him,” he stated. On 9 April, 2020, Ruto called a press conference during which he tried to explain why he had not been seen alongside Uhuru and Cabinet Secretaries while giving updates on the coronavirus pandemic. Ruto said the coronavirus pandemic had changed government operations and most meetings are now being done virtually. He added that the President and the DP avoid travelling together or being together to avoid a situation where both contract the disease. He, however, said he had been in frequent communication with the President. “I have been in frequent communication with the President but in these difficult times, it is not advisable for the President and the DP to travel together or be in the same physical location," Ruto stated. But even before the ban on public meeting was announced, Ruto had been missing from the public limelight for weeks. Uhuru kicked off his onslaught in earnest when he successfully engineered changes to the National Management Committee of Jubilee, eliciting sharp protests from Ruto and his allies. Ruto rejected the changes, terming the move as fraudulent and attributed it to shadowy characters in the party. Edited by Henry Makori