As the local football coaches continue to sweat over the fitness levels of their players, Ulinzi Stars' technical director Dunstan Nyaudo counts his side to be lucky. Nyaudo revealed that the club had not been hit hard by the suspension of public gatherings and sporting activities as the military exercises had played a massive role in keeping the players fit. The former head coach said even though the players had retreated to the barracks after the ban on sporting activities was effected, the technical bench was still playing their role, albeit through various social media. He said the players were receiving daily online training regimes to complement the military exercises in their respective camps. Nyaudo noted that the absence of civilians in the team had also handed them another advantage as the players are bound to take the compulsory exercises in the barracks. "Training as a unit remains suspended but our players are a bit lucky as the technical bench sends a training regime which complements the normal military exercises. This has helped them to keep fit even with the restrictions imposed on sporting activities and public gatherings. We are glad we did not have civilians in the team by the time the first case was reported in the country and it is easier to monitor them from the barracks where they are also doing other military chores," he said. Nyaudo, in the meantime, was hopeful that their injured forward Oscar Wamalwa will resume training in the near future. Wamalwa was ruled out of the 2019-2020 season after dislocating his shoulder in February and consequently went under the knife. Nyaudo said the towering striker was recovering well and is projected to resume training before August. Wamalwa bagged the 'Golden Boot' during last year's Cecafa Senior Challenge in Uganda,  thanks to his three goals in the tournament. "He is doing well although he is yet to start training. If all goes well and coronavirus is contained, then we are looking forward to having him ready possibly in the opening rounds of the new season. The rest of the players are fit and should be ready to play once we are given the green light to resume normal training and competitive matches," he added.