Victims of road accidents will seek compensation from the government and not insurance companies if a bill staging the arrangement is approved. The gist of the proposed Road Accident Fund Bill is to create a fund at the Central Bank of Kenya from which accident compensation claims will be paid. Ndaragwa MP Jeremiah Kioni, also chairman of the Constitution Implementation Oversight Committee, wants 10 per cent of the fuel levy to be deposited to the Fund. A draft of the bill due for publication this week and seen by the Star shows that the compensation claims will be administered by a Road Accident Fund Board. “The board shall compensate a third party for any loss or bodily injury suffered as a result of a road accident,” the proposal reads. The board shall recover from an insurer the amount paid as compensation for any loss or bodily injury suffered as a result of any road accident, it reads. Among conditions is that the owner of a motor vehicle must have an insurance policy or such a security in respect of third-party risks. The law makes it mandatory for every vehicle owner to obtain a policy of insurance or such a security. Sums payable must not exceed percentages set in the Insurance (Motor vehicles Third Party Risks) Act – capped at Sh3 million for deaths from accidents. NTSA data as of April 23 shows that at least 1,022 people have died from road accidents since January; with another 2,151 seriously injured and 1,636 slightly injured. Insurance Regulatory Authority data further shows that motor claims topped insurers’ payout last year at Sh26 billion. Personal accident claims amounted to Sh668 million. Should MPs pass the bill; claimants will be required to fill a prescribed form, part of which would be a report of a medical examination by a certified practitioner. Kioni told the Star on Wednesday that he hopes to end the trouble of injured and maimed Kenyans in chasing compensation claims for years on end. “The enactment of the bill will obligate the government to ensure compliance with the laws and policies relating to road transport and safety,” he said. “It will also safeguard the lives of Kenyans from the effects of road accidents by ensuring there is timely compensation in respect of injuries caused by the driving of motor vehicles.” Kioni argued that Kenyans have no capacity to determine the legitimacy of an insurance company – some are inexistent, and also whether a vehicle is insured or not. “How would an ordinary citizen know if a vehicle is covered by a bogus insurance company? How do you know a company was declared bankrupt?” the MP asked. “It is the state’s responsibility to pay compensation and go claim from the insurance company.” Kioni added that the bill will also end cases of collusion between cops and advocates to defraud insurers. The law proposes punishments for persons who lie or present inaccurate information to the board among them falsification and alteration of treatment documents and records. Hefty charges await those who exaggerate injuries or degree of incapacitation; falsify and alter police documents as well as identification documents. “Such a person commits an offence and upon conviction, in addition to the applicable penalty, the claim of the false or inaccurate information shall not be payable by the board,” the bill reads. The board shall comprise a chairperson appointed by the Treasury Cabinet Secretary; PSs Treasury, Transport, Devolution, and four representatives of special interest groups in the transport industry. The proposed Accident Fund will be steered by a chief executive officer who shall be an ex-officio member and secretary to the board. Kioni proposes that the board creates a Road Accident Inquiry Committee to conduct inquiries into claims for compensation for loss or bodily injury suffered as a result of a road accident. The team would also advise the board on any medical and legal issues arising from any claim for compensation by a victim. It will also advise on the sum payable in respect of liability for any claim presented by an accident survivor or families of persons killed in a car crash. Edited by R.Wamochie