The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission is on the spot for taking unnecessarily long to recruit a substantive chief executive officer. Marjan Marjan has been holding the Commission Secretary position in an acting capacity for the last 13 months following the exit of Ezra Chiloba. The Public Service Act 2017 stipulates that an officer may be appointed in an acting capacity for at least 30 days but not more than six months. IEBC’s studious silence over the recruitment has elicited concerns among quarters that are keen on having the crucial post filled. The issue is that the commission is yet to conduct fresh recruitment despite the court allowing it to do so as long as they follow the law. A source intimated to the Star that the polls agency bosses may have chosen to deliberately sit on the matter “since the courts issued no timelines within which the recruitment was to be completed”. In the July 2019 ruling, Judge Byram Ongaya stopped the hiring of a CEO as was advertised on May 21 that year. It also stopped the interviews for 10 shortlisted candidates who were among 94 that applied for the Commission Secretary post. Marjan, Humphrey Nakitari, Joel Mabonga, Nancy Kariuki, Christopher Kimali and Zephania Aura were shortlisted. Others on the shortlist were Elishiba Murigi, Benjamin Tarus, Anne Mwasi and Khalid Billow. In further orders, Ongaya told the IEBC that notwithstanding the nullification, nothing stopped the commission from recruiting a CEO. “The respondents are at liberty to set aside the shortlisting of the 10 candidates…and further at liberty to proceed with the recruitment in accordance with the law,” the ruling reads. Ongaya specified this to include shortlisting and interviewing candidates as well as appointing the successful candidate. The judge barred Marjan from participating in the process should he apply for the post. Conflict of interest was among grounds mentioned in the Chama Cha Mawakili case. Judge Ongaya directed that the fresh recruitment be devoid of the established (Marjan’s) or other conflicts of interest. The courts also allowed the polls agency to involve an independent consultant to steer the process. It is now 10 months since the orders were issued, which raises questions as to how long the polls agency wants to maintain the status quo. IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati attributed the delays to the commission’s decision to conclude the court process. He told the Star on Tuesday that it has been impossible to conduct interviews for the 94 applicants who expressed interest. “The ruling had a proviso we interview all the 94 applicants. This is an exercise we felt was not easy to undertake. We instructed our lawyers to have the final determination of the case upon full hearing. We are waiting for the matter to be concluded,” the IEBC chairman said. He added, “It [the delay] is not our making but the courts'. The courts said any candidate with a degree has to be shortlisted. And all the candidates had this minimum requirement.” Chebukati, while lamenting that the Covid-19 situation has slowed the commission’s activities, said it was in the interest of the poll agency bosses for the matter to be concluded. But lawyer Sylvester Mbithi said since the court had directed the IEBC on what was to be done, the commission should have begun the process afresh. “By continuing to work with an acting CEO, they are in breach of the law, worse off now that they are yet to recruit one,” the lawyer said. “The IEBC has three commissioners hence have no excuse for taking too long to conclude the process.” Edited by R.Wamochie