Tigania West MP John Mutunga has emphasised the need for handwashing to not only contain Covid-19 but also reduce diarrhoea, coughing and other ailments spread through germs. He said the Covid-19 case that was confirmed in neighbouring Isiolo county has sent shock waves and fear through Meru county. The legislator urged residents to be disciplined to aid the fight against the disease. Mutunga spoke while donating more than 3,000 bottles of sanitiser and face masks to boda boda riders, shop attendants and traders. He was accompanied by area deputy county commissioner Stanislaus Apwokha. The lawmaker cautioned motorists and riders to be extra vigilant when applying sanitiser to prevent their cars or motorbikes from going up into flames. “Don’t ignite your motorcycles after sanitising the keys. It will kill you or burn the motorcycle. I'm aware many use lamps to light homes, be careful,” Mutunga said. He appealed to families that depend on lamps and candles to light their homes to wash their hands instead of sanitising, to avoid fire outbreaks. He, however, lamented that many residents lack water at their homes and the situation has hampered the fight as most people find it difficult to wash their hands regularly and thoroughly. Highlighting other control measures, Mutunga urged residents to adopt cashless payments such as mobile money transfer systems to reduce the risk of contracting the virus. He said hard cash increases vulnerability. "You deal with so many people from different places in a day. I saw it worth to issue the protective gear for your own safety. Don’t carry any passenger without a facemask. Tell your clients to wash hands and if it’s a must you collect cash, sanitise. Help your brother and sister to prevent themselves from the pandemic,” Mutunga said. Mutunga asked the chairmen of riders and markets not to politicise the distribution or deny those not allied to his camp. He said the virus needs concerted efforts from every individual capable of assisting. The MP urged the riders not to dirty the environment with emptied sanitiser bottles and instead return them to his office for refilling.