There was no vote to remove the Majority Leader and the Majority Whip in the Senate... The leadership, therefore, remains intact. These were the words of Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika who has remained defiant insisting she is still the Majority Whip in the Senate. In a letter addressed to Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka on Monday, Kihika alongside 21 other senators claimed that they were only informed through the media that there was a meeting for Jubilee Party senators. "We did not receive any formal invitation for any meeting with an agenda to discuss the removal of the Senate Majority Leader and the Senate Majority Whip," she said. "We believe in the unity of the Jubilee Party and we do not support anyone who is trying to create factions within our party." Kihika said they held consultative meetings adding that requirements of the Standing Order 19 make it mandatory for more than a half of the senators to remove the two which was not met. "No vote was carried as required by the said Standing Order 19 to remove the two. We wish to state categorically that our party does not have a valid coalition agreement with Kanu," she said. "We, therefore, hold that the leadership of the majority party in the senate remains as it is until the requirements of the Constitution, the standing orders and the Jubilee Party Constitution are adhered to. " Kihika said all official communication can only be written by Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen. In a communique from State House on Monday, West Pokot Senator Samuel Poghisio was appointed the new Senate Majority leader. The changes were effected following a Jubilee Coalition Senate Parliamentary Group Meeting on Monday chaired by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Poghisio will now be deputised by Isiolo senator Fatuma Dullo Adan. In the new changes, Murang'a Senator Irungu Kang'ata has replaced Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika as the Majority Chief Whip. State House spokesperson Kanze Dena-Mararon said 20 senators from both Jubilee and Kanu attended the meeting. The changes saw Deputy President William Ruto close allies Murkomen and Kihika lose their powerful senate positions.