Several estates, hospitals and learning institutions are among areas in Nairobi that will be hit by water crisis after the Sasumua Dam treatment plant was shut down. The Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company said in a statement on Friday that this has been occasioned by a massive landslide at Karemenu River inside the Aberdare Ranges Forest. Sasumua Dam supplies 11.6 per cent of the water consumed in Nairobi. The water company said its engineers and maintenance staff are at the site to carry out repairs. “Currently the area is experiencing heavy rains making access very difficult as we have to walk over 10km inside the forest. The government is doing everything possible to restore the supply,” the firm said. Areas affected include estates along Waiyaki Way, Naivasha Road, Kangemi, Lavington, Westlands, Parklands, M P Shah Hospital, Aga Khan Hospital, ILRI, Upper Hill and Kilimani. Nairobi Hospital and Kenyatta National Hospitals will also be affected. University of Nairobi's main campus hall of residence, Upper and Lower Kabete campuses and both UoN and Kenyatta University Parklands law campuses will also suffer interruptions. Others are estates around Kenyatta Market, Kibera, Jamhuri, Ngando, Riruta/Satelite, Dagoretti Corner, Kawangware, Lang'ata, Mbagathi, Ngong Road and Madaraka. Water supply in Karen, Loresho, Nyari, Kitisuru, estates along Peponi Road, New Muthaiga and Thigiri Ridge will also be interrupted. As a result, the water company is mobilising water bowsers to supply the commodity to the affected areas. Customers have been advised to book deliveries from Nairobi water company regional offices at Joseph Kang'ethe in Woodley and Parklands Plaza in Westlands. Residents have been urged to utilise the available water sparingly as the company works towards restoring full supply. The company has also announced that water supply from Ng’ethu treatment works is stabilising as the rains decline. This had led to the reduction of turbidity and clogging of Mwagu water intake in River Chania. On May 1, 2020, the water supply was interrupted in some estates after a heavy downpour in Aberdare Ranges, which caused the shutting down of Ng’ethu treatment works. Residents along Outering Road, parts of Mombasa Road, central business district, Dandora, Kariobangi and Nyayo, among other estates in Eastlands, are already receiving supply. Edited by A.N 