 Former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama has asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to emulate former President Mwai Kibaki and retire “honourably” when his term ends in 2022. There are claims Uhuru plans to amend the Constitution to extend his stay in power even though the President has previously said he will leave office when his second and final term ends. “Go home once your term ends. Don’t amend the Constitution to stay in power,” Muthama told Uhuru on Saturday Muthama's remarks come after claims that the Jubilee-Kanu post-election coalition is part of a wider scheme to have Uhuru extend his stay in office. He was with former senators Boni Khalwale (Kakamega) and Hassan Omar (Mombasa). Muthama said plans for a Government of National Unity is part of the scheme for Uhuru to extend his reign beyond 2022. Omar said Uhuru must exit like former presidents Daniel Moi and Kibaki did. “Exit with honour or face the wrath of Kenyans,” Omar said. Muthama also condemned the removal of Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen and Majority Whip Susan Kihika early this week. Their remarks came in the wake of the gazettement of the Referendum Bill 2020, which has elicited mixed reactions on social media. The bill was published in the Kenya Gazette dated May 15, supplement 71. Kenyans wondered why the government would prioritise the referendum during this period when the country is faced with coronavirus pandemic, locusts invasion, floods menace and a hurting economy. The gazettement comes as the country awaits the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) task force final report. The task force had indicated that Kenyans will not escape a referendum if some of the proposals made by Kenyans are to be implemented. Law Society of Kenya president Nelson Havi said he hoped the Referendum Bill, 2020 is fake news. Muthama, Khalwale and Omar claimed that those backing the government of national unity are keen on getting a piece of the pie once the deal succeeds. “In the event that the country can be subjected to a referendum to enable a powerful prime minister, then Uhuru Kenyatta will be Kenya’s Prime Minister,” they said.  Edited by P.O