Nandi Governor Stephen Sang has asked IPOA to investigate an officer who killed two unarmed civilians on Saturday. Sang said Boniface Kiprotich, 28, and Kevin Kipchumba, 25, died after being shot by a police officer from Kulava police station while negotiating to have two cows released. Cows belonging to Samuel Rono had strayed into a maize farm belonging to Patrick Angasi at Katanin village, Tabolwa, in Mosop subcounty. Two police officers were called to witness the negotiations and subsequent release of the two cows at Angasi’s home. The two who are neighbours at the volatile Kakamega-Nandi border failed to reach an agreement and turned rowdy as each party fled. However, according to officials of the local peace committee, police opened fire at the fleeing group. “A female officer fired directly at the mob killing the two, one of whom succumbed to a head injury while being taken to Kapsabet county referral hospital,” Gedion Boit said. Sang said the two communities at the border had been living peacefully and solving their own disputes amicably since time immemorial. It was wrong for police to kill people while negotiating for solutions, Sang said. Immediately after the shooting, five people sustained injuries in an ensuring flare-up as the public protested the killings. Sang said the Independent police Oversight Authority should move in to establish why armed officers used such a force when no life was threatened by a disagreement over two cows. “The officer is known and justice can only be handed to the deceased families and to promote peace and co-existence along the border when the suspected officer faces the law,” Sang said. He spoke at Kapsabet county referral hospital when he went to see those who were injured during the police attack. The cows had strayed from their shade on Friday night and destroyed crops, which is normally settled with payment of a fee as compensation, Paul Koech, the secretary of the peace committee, said. The female officer used a G3 rifle to fire the shots that claimed the lives of the two who left seven children and two wives without a breadwinner. Nandi county commissioner Kutswa Olaka and his Kakamega counterpart Pauline Kola together with county security teams were holding talks to find a permanent solution. Sang said he was against politicians being involved in finding solutions and urged the Ministry of Interior to ensure the officer is arrested. Mosop MP Vincent Tuwei asked the residents not to engage in acts of lawlessness and allow the government to carry out its mandate. Edited by Henry Makori