Meru is back to the old normal. From matatus ferrying excess passengers, crowding in markets to failing to wear masks, the people of Meru are now behaving normally despite the pandemic threat. A spot check by the Star revealed that matatus along the Meru-Maua, Isiolo-Muriri, Mikinduri-Meru Road and the Meru-Mukothima route are ferrying more than the number the Ministry of Health has recommended to ensure social distancing. This is especially between 5pm-7pm as residents rush to beat the curfew. Locals are also complaining about touts who don't adhere to Covid-19 prevention directives, saying some don't wear masks. The matatus are also not washing or sanitising their passengers' hands. On Saturday, Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi noted that people are behaving as if the coronavirus threat has been dealt with. "We have observed that people are beginning to behave like the threat posed by Covid-19 is behind us. Human and vehicle traffic is back to normal, as many people are getting back to work despite our appeal to work from home. This is a dangerous trend," Mwangangi said during the daily update at Afya House. "We are reminding business outlets such as cyber cafes, butcheries, take away shops, markets, salons and barbershops that they must strictly observe the measures outlined by the Ministry of Health, failure of which they shall be closed," she further warned. Some eateries had also started reopening their businesses in Meru. The police how now erected a roadblock at Muriri along the Meru-Maua Road to inspect and screen passenger temperatures. Tigania Central deputy county commissioner Obed Mose told the Star that police in the area are enforcing the health directives and those flouting them will "face full force of the law or be quarantined for 14 days". Mose said Probox taxis should carry only four people, including the driver, while 14-seater matatus will ferry at maximum eight people. “We must take necessary precautions even if there is no reported case in the county. No bar should be opened unless one goes there for takeaway. We know there are economic consequences but prevention is better," he said. The area police boss also said they have information that some people have started manufacturing homemade illicit brews. “We have formed a surveillance team with the public health officer to give technical support to heed the Health ministry's directives on social distancing, wearing masks and practising hygiene, especially washing hands,” Mose said.  Edited by E.Kibii