Three classic cars from Uganda have been entered for the Golden Jubilee Africa Concours d’Elegance,  highlighting the Africa continental status of the classiest event set for September 27th at the Nairobi Racecourse. Jinja-based Leslie Carvell will be driving her maroon-coloured 1970 Volkswagen to Nairobi to contest the up to 1300cc touring car class. She is a former winner of the Uganda Vintage and Classic car show (a Concours event in Kampala) and has taken home prizes from the Nairobi racecourse. Leslie is also a dedicated supporter of conservation and donates her prize money to wildlife projects. Kakooza Wazzir will have a busy day at the Nairobi racecourse and will divide his time between his rare 1996 Mitsuoka Viewt saloon and his gleaming highly prepared 1980 Toyota Corona. Kakooza will be making his fourth visit to the Nairobi racecourse and is bound to appear in flamboyant costumes which have brought him fancy dress awards in previous years. Last year, the Uganda Bikers Association (UBA) members rode nine massive motorcycles from Kampala to Nairobi for the event and the UBA is expected to enter a strong two-wheeler contingent for the Golden Jubilee Concours. There are 12 classes for cars, SUV’s and utility vehicles and eight for motorcycles. The first Concours d’Elegance was held in the grounds of a Nairobi hotel to mark the Alfa Romeo Owners Club first birthday. The event was limited to club members with Alfa Romeo cars, which were parked for assessment by the judges. The owners stood beside their cars and the officials walked from one entry to another to make their assessment and allocate the prizes. Later, the venue changed to the Nairobi motor racing circuit which was located in the area of the inland container depot. The event was opened to all makes and types of cars, pickups and utility vehicles and 40 years ago classes for motorcycles were included in the regulations. In 2005, the Alfa Romeo Owners Club joined forces with the Jockey Club of Kenya to hold the Concours at the Nairobi Racecourse. This move proved highly popular with competitors, officials, spectators and sponsors and has helped to establish the international reputation of the Concours. The setting of the Nairobi racecourse is the envy of Concours events in several countries.