Two months ago, Peter Musyoka's main job was to tend to a sizeable congregation of worshipers at Mathyakani New Apostolic Church. Musyoka walked seven kilometres to his church outside Mwingi town every Sunday to deliver spiritual nourishment to waiting faithful. He collected offerings to take care of his family and other church matters. The cleric would pocket at least Sh1,000 every Sunday and carry home foodstuffs donated by his congregants. Not anymore. Churches were closed soon after the coronavirus outbreak hit Kenya on March 13. Musyoka now hawks eggs and smokies to put food on the table for his family of nine. Without church services, he no longer receives offerings. “Not that I love this business more than my religious calling, it is only that I have no other means of survival,” Musyoka told the Star. In the new venture, Musyoka makes Sh350 on a good day. He says that depending on church members' offering was much better. It is taxing to walk around Mwingi town all day under the scorching sun and sometimes rains while selling boiled eggs. As a pastor, the only challenge he had was how to reach the church seven kilometres away. “Most of the time I walked to the church while other times I got lifts from those who knew me. I later bought a bicycle but after an accident, the doctor warned me to stop cycling,” he said. Musyoka initially thought the coronavirus was a disease only foreigners contracted until a case was reported in Mwingi town. The pastor said the eggs and smokies business does not give him enough to cater for his large family. “On bad days, my family and I spend the nights on empty stomachs as even fending for them has become a challenge,” Musyoka said. He pleaded with well-wishers to donate food and other basics to the less fortunate during this crisis. Musyoka said that since the coronavirus case was reported Mwingi town, sales have plummeted. President Uhuru Kenyatta should consider reopening churches but with stringent measures to ensure the safety of faithful, he said. Church leaders would adhere to all precautionary measures set by the Health ministry, he said. “The faith of Christians is waning as they are not used to praying from home. The government can send police officers to ensure all set measures are adhered to in churches,” he said. Musyoka said that once churches reopen, he will abandon his business and concentrate on preaching the word of God.  (edited by o. owino)