Kenyan Premier League is waiting with bated breath on the fresh directives by the Sports Disputes Tribunal set to be released today to determine their next course of action in wake of the controversial conclusion of the 2019-2020 season. The tribunal is set to issue orders on the status of the Football Kenya Federation's National Executive Committee who are yet to vacate office despite the March 17 ruling which threw them out. The tribunal on April 24 maintained its stance on the status of the NEC. However, the NEC members were handed a lifeline after Fifa quashed the tribunal's ruling which ended their tenure and further had sought the formation of a normalization committee. KPL was shocked when the FKF President Nick Mwendwa took to his Twitter accounts to declare that the season had been concluded in total disregard of the statutes which shields KPL from third parties interference. The league body revealed that that Fkf had not consulted them before making the decision which saw Gor Mahia retain their title, as well as promoted the Nairobi City Stars to the top flight. According to article 2.3.3 of the Fkf constitution, the powers to suspend a season lies within the FKFs executive committee. "The FKF National Executive Committee has the power to suspend or extend the season as it shall deem fit," reads the article. KPL argues that they will determine the next course of action after the tribunal determines the fate of the committee which has been accused of extending their stay in office. "They haven't responded to our letters sent last week but we are waiting. There is a tribunal hearing today and it is the orders which will be issued that will determine what direction we will take. We are legally mandated to run the top flight and any interference by a third party is actionable. We have options that we are looking to pursue but first, we will have to hear the tribunal's orders as far as the NEC is concerned," said KPL's chief executive officer, Jack Oguda. Meanwhile, Gor Mahia CEO Lordvick Aduda has criticised FKF for meddling into KPL matters without consultations. Aduda, who has been a fiery critic of the current regime, said the decision was not in the best interest of the game and was self-assured that should KPL seek legal intervention, FKF's decision would be quashed. "I did not see the reason for FKF to conclude the season without consulting. There is a body mandated to run the league and it was only fair if they had a word with them. It is in full contravention of the laws and suspending the league is an exclusive power granted the NEC and not an individual. At the moment, FKF do not have the powers as the NEC's term expired in February and were consequently thrown out by the court," said Aduda