The Kenya Forest Service on Friday urged Community Forest Associations to conform to the Forest Law and fulfil the requirements by the Registrar of Societies. KFS Chairman Peter Kinyua made the appeal when he undertook an aerial tour of the Mukogodo before joining a stakeholder meeting at the forest in Laikipia County. During the tour, Kinyua was accompanied by the Chief Conservator of Forest Julius Kamau. Kinyua said conforming to the law is the way communities living adjacent to forests will be able to participate in forest activities, access stakeholder funding and related support. "The 30,159 hectares(74,537 acres) of Mukogodo Forest is well-conserved as a result of the productive partnerships among several stakeholders, adjacent communities and the KFS," Kinyua said. The conformity and compliance with the requirements by the Registrar of Societies have seen the number of registered CFAs drop from 354 to 255. Participatory Forest Management Plans provide a framework for Community Forest Associations to co-manage forest resources and to benefit from forest-related enterprises such as beekeeping, eco-tourism, among others. Part of the requirements that CFAs are supposed to fulfil includes submitting annual returns, submitting audited accounts, holding elections in line with CFA Constitutions and annually updating their registers. The Chief Conservator of Forests Julius Kamau noted that to actualize participatory forest management, forest adjacent communities must be fully and actively involved. Kamau said CFA membership enrollment is for the willing and must be conducted in public forums. "Community forest associations are key in the conservation of our resources," Kamau said. Kamau thanked the community for their active involvement in the conservation of the forest. He noted that development actors willing to support Community Forest Associations must do so within the structures provided by the Law. The CCF noted that he had worked closely with most of the stakeholders present and thanked them for being part of conserving Mukogodo forest. CFA Chairman Tema Karamwishwo said the CFA has been working closely with local Chiefs and had engaged 12 forest scouts to patrol the forest. Karamwishwo said he receives daily intelligence reports from the community and communicates suspect activities to law enforcement agencies.