Six suspects have been arrested and 520 litres of illicit brew confiscated at Maisha Mathi village in Maragua, Murang’a county. Area assistant county commissioner Alex Mukindia on Monday said there is a manhunt for six others who fled during Friday's raid on illicit brew dens. He said of the six arrested, two were nabbed in the morning and taken to court. They were fined Sh10,000 each or an alternative three-month jail sentence. The other four were arrested that evening and released on bail. The four will also be charged. “We confiscated 445 litres of kangara and 75 litres of chang’aa,”Mukindia said. Last week, Maragua deputy county commissioner Mawira Mungania said he would form a special police unit to combat illicit brew in the area. This is after photos were circulated on social media showing drunk youths lying on the road. The brewers had threatened the lives of local chiefs and assistant chiefs, and had dared them to conduct raids in their dens. Ichagaki chief Mohamed Ali told journalists of an incident in which they confiscated 75 litres of chang’aa and the brewers regrouped and attacked them with pangas and repossessed their brew. They are usually armed with pangas, arrows and spears ready to defend their trade. Residents are also silent on the chang’aa brewing cartel for fear of being attacked. The brewers conduct their business in a marshy area, which is difficult to access. But Mukindia said the security team is determined to ensure the illicit trade is brought to an end. He said the suspects easily raise the fines imposed by the courts and resume brewing, but vowed to keep arresting them. In 2018, Mukindia said, the security team helped the brewers form a self-help group. “We partnered with local leaders and registered a group for them, and they received Sh450,000 from MP Mary Waithera and Woman Representative Sabina Chege to start pig farming,” the administrator said. But the joy was short-lived as some brewers reverted to their illicit trade and the project collapsed. Mukindia said they are now taking advantage of the countrywide curfew and are brewing at night. “But we will eventually get them. This trade has to stop,” he said. In Mathare area, which has also been problematic, Mukindia said police officers managed to arrest two youths, each with 20 litres of chang’aa. He appealed to members of the public to provide more information on the brewers. “We are also asking parents to talk to their sons to discourage them from consuming illicit liquor,” the administrator said. The commissioner said allowing consumption of illicit brews to continue would be dangerous for residents as the country grapples with the Covid-19 pandemic. “We cannot implement the social distancing rules and other guidelines issued by the government in an environment where people brew and consume illicit brews,” he said. Edited by A.N