Many people would love to have a finely chiselled body and great stamina. Some would love the adorable stunning muscles that stand out and a six-pack tummy to stand out. However, many people in the gym will tell you it is not easy and our body’s response plays a big role. Some people naturally have a big upper body, smaller lower body or other genetic developments. As such, our body responds to training and meals differently. This calls for a customised training programme, which requires the trainer to spend time with you so they can draft one. It will help them understand what works for your body and areas where you need to improve. By closely monitoring you, the trainer will identify your needs, which areas of the body to work out and how to do it. The personal trainer will help you set realistic goals to motivate you and ensure you follow instructions well. They will closely understand how you are working out, notice small changes and how far you can go in training. From my three years of heavy working out, I can attest to these advantages. As training goes online due to lockdown, besides grappling with poor network and family distractions, some works are harder to understand and require a trainer to be physically close to the client. With proximity, a trainer can ensure the trainee has the correct posture and technique to maximise on the workout. The trainer will also be in a position to do first aid in case of an injury. A trainer will also guide you on exercise form. Form is a specific way of performing a movement, often a strength training exercise, to avoid injury, prevent cheating and increase strength. Experts warn that if your forms are not correct, then you are at increased risk of injury as well as not achieving your goals. They believe that being close to an instructor will help you develop exercises tailored to your plan. A trainer will also hold you accountable. They will ensure you stick to the programme and ensure you train effectively for maximum results. Personal trainers will also help with your unique requirements. For instance, they might consider old injuries, surgeries, phobia or other in capabilities in training. This will help protect you from injuries, demoralisation and failure to achieve their goals. The synergy from working with a trainer will push you to new heights. They can tailor the programme and help you train for a specific event. They will challenge you on new things and go to new levels for better results. Trainers are unofficial therapists who help you keep going and get the best you can achieve. The writer is a workout enthusiast