Some Jubilee officials in Kakamega county have asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to extend the purge of disloyal members to the branches to steady his government. Branch deputy chairperson Claris Sunguri, youth leader Samuel Amambia and co-ordinator Raphael Welimo said they fully supported the changes made in the party and parliamentary leadership by the party leader. “We fully support the party leader’s actions as long as they are meant to better the lives of Kenyans. The President made promises to Kenyans during campaigns and he should be supported to deliver them fully,” Welimo said. He said the planned changes in the leadership of the National Assembly should ensure the Majority Whip seat currently held by Mumias East MP Ben Washiali remains in Kakamega county. They proposed the seat be handed to Navakholo MP Emmanuel Wangwe if Washiali is kicked out. Jubilee Party has replaced Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen, Chief Whip Susan Kihika and Deputy Speaker Kindiki Kithure in the last two weeks. The purge is now set for the National Assembly leadership next week. Washiali is among the MPs targeted for removal from assembly leadership for opposing programmes by the President and backing his DP William Ruto’s 2022 bid. Speaking in Kakamega on Thursday, Welimo said Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju should trigger a restructuring of the party branches so that party officials engaged in early 2022 campaigns are replaced by those ready to support the President’s agenda. Amambia said, “We are interested in seeing he fulfils the promises he made to the people of Kakamega before 2022. We want the President to address the troubled sugar industry and completion of stalled road construction and not 2022 politics.” He said those being purged were not propagating the President's Big 4 agenda and push to unite the country but were preoccupied with their interests in 2022. The branch leadership is, however, split between those supporting the President’s wing and those on the DP Ruto’s side. Branch chairman Moses Lumiti is in the camp led by Washiali and former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale who are drumming up support for the DP’s 2022 bid. Edited by Henry Makori