Retired Supreme Court judge Jackton Ojwang’ is among beneficiaries of key board appointments announced by President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday. President Kenyatta appointed the retired judge as chairman of the Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority (EPRA). The 70-year-old retired judge will chair the board for four years effective May 12. His appointment came alongside that of former Controller of Budget Agnes Odhiambo who was appointed to the NTSA board. President Kenyatta also appointed former JKUAT VC Mabel Imbuga as chairperson of the National Council Against Drug Abuse (Nacada) board. Kenyans criticized Ojwang’s appointment saying it further diminishes the youths’ hope of getting state jobs. Kenyans on Twitter said it was unfortunate that retirees are getting state jobs yet there are energetic young men with the capacity to handle the said tasks. @Surtanbett said "Congratulations President Uhuru Kenyatta for appointing another youth, retired Justice Jackton Ojwang (70 yrs) to head the energy and petroleum. Why are you obsessed with these "youths" Or it is an avenue to loot." "President Uhuru Kenyatta has today remembered to appoint youths in government parastatals. Agnes Odhiambo - 60 years Mabel Imbuga - 68 years old Jackton Ojwang - 70 years Thank you Mr. President," @VictorMochere tweeted. @JKariuk00249216 said "I hear President Uhuru Kenyatta has appointed a youthful Jackton Ojwang (70yrs only) to Head Energy Regulatory Authority, Congratulations sir, good advise from your brother @RailaOdinga "Truth. Our dear President Uhuru Kenyatta cares about the youth. The young man Jackton Ojwang' is just 70 years old and just received his ID. The country needs such young, energetic boys and girls... A glass of water please. Thank you," @jumaf3_ tweeted. "President Uhuru Kenyatta never disappoints when it comes to giving high profile jobs to the youth as the old people are told to focus on entrepreneurship. Congratulation Jackton Ojwang for your appointment as EPRA boss," @stephenngunya tweeted.