A group of professionals from Ukambani has endorsed Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka’s resolve to work with President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee government. They said the move will foster national unity and spur socio-political and economic development in the region and the country at large. “We note with great satisfaction that this strategic move by the Wiper leader is for the greater good of not only the Kamba community,” they said in a statement. They include the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Council Daniel Yumbya, who also doubles as the Kamba Professionals Forum chairman. Others are Kenya Film Classification Board CEO Erick Mutua, Kenya Medical Training College chairman Philip Kaloki, former EACC chairman Mumo Matemu and Kenyatta University Lecturer Prof Donald Kombo. South Eastern Kenya University VC Prof Geoffrey Muluvi, former KMTC Director Dr Timothy King'ondu, Ease of Doing Business Director John Mwendwa and UoN Paediatric Surgeon Prof Julius Kyambi also endorsed the collaboration. More than 50 members of the Wiper National Executive Council authorised Musyoka, who is the party leader, to seal a co-operation agreement with Jubilee and Kanu. The members unanimously backed the immediate implementation of the cooperation agreement between Wiper, Jubilee and Kanu. “Meeting under the leadership of the party leader Kalonzo has today authorised him to seal a cooperation agreement with Jubilee and Kanu with immediate effect,” the party said in a statement. The party NEC added that once the agreement is sealed, it will be signed by party chairman Chirau Ali Mwakwere and secretary general Judith Sijeny. The Kamba professionals said, “We always bear the brunt of the decisions by our political leaders when our people get disadvantaged in terms of development projects. Most of the time the residents end up as the sufferers, hence, putting the burden on the professional’s leaders.” They said they have given the move unequivocal endorsement since development is, invariably, a political process. They noted that since Independence, the Kamba community has only witnessed tangible development projects when it has been properly aligned to the exigencies of the politics of the day. “It is, therefore, with great joy that we give our full blessings and support to Kalonzo as the senior-most Kamba leader in his endeavour to pursue an appropriate political working framework that will see the community fully inside the government,” the statement reads. The leaders committed to offering their expertise and strategic organisational skills and acumen to ensure that the pursuit of the ‘visionary’ political collaboration succeeds. “No community can achieve sustainable development in isolation of other communities. Further, there can be no meaningful peace without peaceful engagements with other communities and, therefore, efforts towards alliances and collaboration with other communities and political parties, particularly the ruling party, is not only strategic but wise,” they said. Edited by R.Wamochie