 The government has been asked to completely close the border with Tanzania to curb the spread of coronavirus. Two people on Saturday tested positive for Covid-19 after they returned from Tanzania after crossing ver into the neighbouring country where coronavirus cases have surged. Kenya has closed its borders but people continue to move across the two countries. Kuria West MP Mathias Robi and his Suna West counterpart Peter Masara said officers manning the entry point have not been strict enough. Their call was supported by Kenyatta University don Dr Joseph Mahiri who said the border should be completely closed. Speaking to the Star separately, the three leaders said it was unfortunate that people continue to freely cross into Kenya and Tanzania at will when Tarime, the Tanzanian town on the other side of the border has already recorded four cases of Covid-19. Tarime is just 20km from Isebania, the Kenyan border with Tanzania. Speaking at his home in Mabera, Robi said truck drivers, traders and boda boda riders have been crossing the border without restrictions. “We have severally raised complaints as leaders that the measures to control movement at the main Isebania border and others have failed completely, the response by officials on those who cross the border have been lax,” Robi said. He said one of those who tested positive had been asked to quarantine himself but refused. The man was later forced into quarantine after an outcry on social media before he tested positive. On Saturday, Health Chief Administrative Secretary Mercy Mwangangi 24 more people had tested positive for coronavirus with two from Kuria West in Migori county. “The last two cases are from Kuria West, Migori County. These two had a recent history of travel from Tanzania,” Mwangagi said. The news was received with in Migori town. On Sunday Migori, Isebania, Nyamatiro, Kopanga and other border posts were deserted as traders and residents remained indoors. Mahiri together with Fr Lance Marynoll from USA distributed maize, rice, soaps, beans and other food items to more than 200 families in Migori town on Sunday. They said the news of coronavirus had jolted residents. “The two were forced into quarantine following pressure from residents who reported them to authorities. That is the spirit,” Mahiri told the Star on the phone. He said residents should complement government efforts to contain the virus. “Migori and Suna West are on high alert since we share a border with Tanzani. Residents should take more stringent measures to ensure compliance with public health safety by following guidelines issued,” Masara said. The three leaders called on government agencies to ramp up testing of those crossing the border and ensure coronavirus is contained. The county's Covid-19 response team co-chaired by GovernorOkoth Obado and county commissioner Joseph Rotich held a meeting to put up more measures to fight the virus.  Edited by P.O