Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi has denied being behind the publication and distribution of campaign posters in Eldoret indicating that he will vie for the Senate seat in Uasin Gishu in 2022. The posters were circulated on Sunday night. They bear Sudi’s pictures along with writings attacking Governor Jackson Mandago over a plan to purchase of a bank building in the town. They also tell Mandago to “stop stealing from the people”. "I have always been outspoken on my position. You all know my ways of expressing myself. I don't use such means. My political detractors are stooping too low. Ignore those fake posters. Hii Ni upumbafu na ujinga ya mwisho (This is stupidity and tomfoolery),” Sudi said in a post on social media. He told the Star that he was above such cheap tricks and residents of Uasin Gishu were also mature enough to know the truth. "People of Uasin Gishu know me very well and such cheap propaganda can't work.” A vicious social media war erupted between Sudi and Mandago’s supporters after Sudi termed as suspect, the governor’s plans to purchase the National Bank building in Eldoret at Sh570 million. "Uasin Gishu county does not have fools. We will not allow you to drive the county to the wrong direction like Uhuru is doing to Kenya because we know both of you are going home in 2022," Sudi said. He said the purchase was not a priority and accused Mandago of using the Covid-19 situation to plan and implement things that are against the wishes of the people. The EACC has since suspended the bank project pending investigations. On other posters, Sudi's portrait is placed alongside that of Kesses MP Dr Swarrup Mishra who is indicated as a candidate for governor in Uasin Gishu in 2022. Mishra also dismissed the posters as fake and cheap propaganda. "Right now we are focusing on Covid-19 and problems affecting Kenyans. Such fake propaganda will not work and serve no purpose at all," Mishra said. Mishra has been mentioned among possible successors of Mandago who is serving his second and final term. Sudi has also accused some senators of betraying DP William Ruto during last week's removal of senators Kipchumba Murkomen and Kihika Kimani from the leadership of the House. Sudi’s and Mandago’s supporters are accusing each other of being behind the circulation of the posters. Edited by R.Wamochie