Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has made a passionate appeal to Kenyans to support poor families during this Covid-19 crisis. He said this is the time for citizens to come out as one family and stand with those unable to put a meal on the table. The CS spoke on Saturday when he presided over the distribution of food and essential supplies to vulnerable residents of Mukuru Kwa Njenga at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC), Nairobi. The donations included maize flour, cooking oil and rice. "I want to encourage as many of us as possible if you are able to forego a meal and share with fellow Kenyans. Let's work hard and help one another; this is the time to help one another. Let's stand with our people if you are able to spare one meal a day for a family that is not able, let's do it,” the CS said. He lauded faith-based organisations for helping poor families through Adopt-a-Family initiative and urged other Kenyans to adopt such programmes. "I know there are so many social groups who are doing a fantastic job helping others. I'm aware of the Adopt-a-Family initiative by so many faith-based organisations. We want to do everything we can to help our brothers and sisters." The CS was accompanied by Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja and Embakasi South MP Julius Mawathe. He said the government has enrolled 250,000 poor households for its weekly stipend programme meant to cushion poor families during the crisis caused by the virus. “Now we are giving 250,000 households in low-income areas across Kenya and we are targeting the urban poor in this process from Nyalenda [in Kisumu] to Bangladesh in Mombasa,” he said. The CS added that more households will be considered subject to availability of resources. “We are going by the resources that we have. We are looking for resources to support more households.” Matiang’i also announced plans to upgrade Mukuru Kwa Njenga, an initiative he noted will be launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta soon. "The president asked me to announce that he will soon launch the new shelter and environment upgrading programme in Mukuru Kwa Njenga. The president is championing it and will launch it himself shortly."  (Edited by F'Orieny)