They might as well be naked. Eighty-two per cent of healthcare workers surveyed are forced to reuse Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) due to lack of supplies. A survey by the Kenya Ethical and Legal Issues Network  (KLEIN) released on Friday suggests 93 per cent of healthcare workers do not have enough PPEs. The study aimed to find out the level of problems and their major concerns. The online survey of 601 health workers, public and private, was conducted from April 9 to April 20 in all 47 counties. Ninety per cent cited lack of goggles, isolation gowns, gloves and protective suits. Eighty-two per cent lack of N95 masks, 18 per cent lacked gloves while 30 per cent lacked surgical masks. “It is in recognising the government efforts need of accountability and support from the greater public that we shall achieve a standard that upholds human dignity and the safety of our citizens,” the report said Executive Director Allan Maleche said 89 per cent of the respondents said they do not have a life insurance cover. It emerged that 94 per cent of healthcare workers are not provided with alternative accommodation or isolation to minimise the risk of exposing their families to the virus. Forty-two per cent have no transport to and from work and with the curfew and partial lockdown, they have difficulty accessing health facilities due to frequent enquiries by police at roadblocks. It was found that 57 per cent of healthcare workers do not have enough changing rooms and rest areas with 80 per cent saying the changing rooms are not adequately cleaned or regularly disinfected, exposing them to risk of exposure to the coronavirus. "Forty-three per cent of facilities are not screening clients at entry and separating the ones demonstrating respiratory symptoms. This means that clients and healthcare workers are exposed to risk regardless of social distancing measures in place,” reads the report. “A further challenge is that 64 per cent of the health facilities do not have enough staff to handle the client flow. This results in crowding, overworked healthcare personnel and increase of infection risk," it said. Ministry guidelines on respiratory diseases require facilities to have natural ventilation and free flow of ambient air in through open windows. In addition, most health facilities do have waste management equipment with only 40 per cent of the waste management in the facilities being cleaned and disinfected, the survey said. The Kenya Union of Clinical Officers secretary general George Gibore appealed to the national and county governments, civil society organisations, WHO and the ministry to handle frontline health workers with utmost priority. “There is an outcry for improved treatment of our frontline champions. They are risking their lives to secure the nation, yet have no medical cover, training support, PPEs, psychological support and sufficient rest time,” Gibore said. She added, “As if that is not enough, they are now facing stigma from the communities given the fear around this virus.” The report calls on the national government to strengthen all health facilities to have the capacity to handle all diseases by equipping them with proper medical equipment, medical staff and medication, including isolation centres for respiratory diseases. “The future of a strong healthcare system is secured on the appropriate treatment and support of those who risk their lives to save others,” Kuco chairman Peterson Wachira said. The report also recommends that the general population, especially in informal settlements, be protected from infection through provision of masks, water and sanitiser so as to protect health care workers.  (Edited by V. Graham)