A voter in Kirinyaga wants Senator Charles Kibiru recalled and his seat declared vacant for participating in the Jubilee matters. Kibiru, who was elected as an independent candidate, participated in the recent Jubilee Senate Parliamentary Group meeting and voted to change the party leadership in the Senate. In a letter to Senate speaker Kenneth Lusaka, Josiah Murigu, a voter in Kirinyaga, said Kibiru breached the Constitution and implored the speaker to declare the seat vacant. “It is my humble prayer that you find the senator having been elected as an independent candidate has joined a political party and consequently his seat be declared vacant,” reads the letter in part. But in a quick rejoinder, Kibiru rubbished the claims, terming Murigu a busy body who was working with a faction of Jubilee politicians to threaten him. “He is just a busy body. What we are saying is that from the day I did my campaigns all along, I promised the people of Kirinyaga one thing. That whatever happens, I will support the government. I have attended all meetings that have been called by the government and I vote always with the government,” he told the star on the phone. In the letter to Lusaka, Murigu said that the senator violated Article 103 (1) of the constitution that stipulates the grounds under which the office of a member of parliament can become vacant. “The decision of our senator to participate in the aid decision implied that he no longer was an independent candidate but had Jubilee Party/Jubilee Coalition as one of its members,” Murigu said. “This is not what the electorate of Kirinyaga had in mind when voting for him as an independent candidate. If they had wanted a candidate in the senatorial seat to be affiliated to any political party they would have done so but they chose otherwise.” Last Monday, President Uhuru Kenyatta chaired a meeting of Senators at State House where Senators Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet) and Susan Kihika (Nakuru) were voted out as Senate Majority Leader and Majority Chief Whip respectively. They were replaced with Samuel Poghisio (West Pokot) and Irungu Kang'ata (Murang’a) respectively. Murigu attached the minutes of the meeting and the list of those who attended the meeting. “A keen look into the minutes availed to you by honourable Irungu Kangata showed that the senator was not only listed as one of the attendees belonging to the Jubilee party but also participated in the endorsement to change the Senate leadership,” he said. He added, “Consequently after the said minutes were presented to you, you went ahead and sanctioned the changes by the jubilee party. In endorsing the said decision, you made a finding that the said the change was made in accordance with the Senate Standing orders 19 (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)." But Kibiru read a sinister motive in the letter, saying he has attended all Jubilee meetings and voted with the majority side and his actions have never been questioned. “In any case, in every other meeting that we have attended, there was nothing like voting. The meeting I attended was like any other that I have attended at State House. That is not the first time I have gone to State House on matters of the government,” he said.