A death row convict who had arranged for her husband's dismemberment so she could sell his Sh5 million property will remain behind bars. The death sentence stands, the Appeal Court ruled, dismissing her case. Damaris Mueni was sentenced to death in 2017 after the High Court found her guilty of murdering Raphael Matheka in Umoja Estate. He owned property elsewhere valued at Sh5 million. Appeal Court judges Roselyne Nambuye, Sankale ole Kantai and Martha Koome ruled on May 22 that considering the crime and Mueni's defence, they found no reason to reduce the sentence. Mueni and Matheka had been married and had one daughter. They lived in a rental house in Umoja One Estate in Nairobi. It belonged to Beatrice Waringa. They also had a kerosene pump in the estate where David Ndolo worked for them. On December 18, 2014, Matheka went to the pump, asked Ndolo for the proceeds and left. The next morning Ndolo sent Sh1,500 to Matheka through M-Pesa. On December 19 at about 8pm, Matheka's friends Erick Kyalo and Johnstone met him at a hotel. They were joined by another person and chatted for 30 minutes. Kyalo and Kimwele were apparently the last people to see Matheka alive. On the night of December 19, Waringa heard three screams from the upper floor of her building where Matheka and Mueni lived. She couldn't identify the voice. She peeped through her window and saw a group of people on the road facing her house. She closed the window and slept. Waringa told the court she never saw Matheka again. On December 20, 2014, officer Simon Mokaya based at the Buruburu police station received a murder report from street boys who had spotted human body parts stashed in two polythene bags at Kariobangi bridge on the Nairobi River. They were collecting plastic bags. Mokaya, the OCS and two officers went to the scene and confirmed they contained a butchered human body. The next day, Mueni told Waringo she wanted to move because her husband hadn't paid rent for three months. Waringa advised her to tell her husband to call her. Waringa called Matheka's mobile but it went unanswered. On December 23, Waringa went looking for Matheka at his kerosene pump. She met two people she didn't know and asked about him. They said they hadn't seen him for three days. She returned to the house and found two handcarts and a big lorry parked outside. Suspecting Mueni wanted to move after her husband's disappearance, she reported to Umoja One police post. An officer and Waringo found Mueni with two handcarts loaded with furniture and housewares. The OCS directed Mueni not to move until her husband had been traced. Before December 23, when the missing person's report was made, Mueni and her daughter sought accommodation with Felista Mumbua. They said her husband had left for Mombasa without paying rent and as a result, Waringo had locked her out. Mumbua took them in. They stayed until Mueni's arrest on February 3, 2015. On January 17, 2015, the court was told that Mueni told Mumbua she intended to sell their plot to raise fees for their daughter. Mumbua tasked her son-in-law Enock Musyimi, to find a buyer for the Sh5 million property. An agent agreed and asked for the requisite documents, which he received. When he realised the property belonged to Matheka, he reported the matter to the Buruburu police station without informing Musyimi. Mueni was arrested by the officers posing as house buyers. The postmortem revealed that Matheka died of multiple injures caused by sharp force trauma. In her defence, Mueni said her husband and his two friends had lunch at her house and said they were going to Mombasa. On the day of his death he said he was going to pick his friends, she testified. They parted ways, he never returned. She denied the murder and said she didn't try to sell her husband's property. (Edited by V. Graham)  