Harambee Starlets’ undisputed first-choice goalkeeper Annet Kundu still maintains that Kenya has one of the most competitive and quality women’s league despite having landed a professional stint in Cyprus early this year. The 22-year-old, who signed for Cyprus Division One league side, Lakatamia in January, explained that in as much as the Women’s Premier League is under-appreciated, the standards are too high with a myriad of talent. “To be honest, the Kenya Women Premier League is very competitive with quality players. Here, we have just started playing Division One this season and there are no better or rather competitive players. The biggest advantage here is quality equipment and well-built football infrastructure.” Kundu won the ‘Golden Glove’ in the Cecafa women’s Challenge tournament in Tanzania last year in December without conceding a single goal in the competition. The performance landed her a deal with Tanzanian side Simba FC but she opted for the Cyprus deal because the offer was too good to turn down. Kundu started her career at Ibinzo Girls’ in Kakamega County before switching to Eldoret Falcons in December 2016. Annet is the younger sister to Kenyan volleyball libero player Agrippina Kundu. “My brothers and sisters have all been amazing in my life. I was undecided to choose between Simba and Lakatamia but they felt it was the right time for me to move to Cyprus. They were the reason I joined Falcons and also monitored my progress from Shamberere primary, where I schooled. Their decision was right and they were excited when I got my wish. I can’t explain their joy.” Kundu said hard work, determination and ‘never say die’ attitude are the reasons she keeps on soaring despite initial struggles at the national team that saw her miss out on the first two Starlets’ call ups. “When I got my first and second call up with Starlets, I couldn’t make the final list. I almost gave up but thanks to coach Joshua Ariko for his encouragement. The third time, I donned the national team jersey and made the spot my preserve. I was nervous at first but my confidence became supreme from there onwards. I am always ready for the national team whenever I am called upon.” At the same time, she tipped Gaspo’s Judith Osimbo to reach dizzying heights in her career. Osimbo has assumed goalkeeping responsibilities in Kundu’s absence. She’s currently vying for the starting berth with Zetech Sparks’ Stella Ahono and Monica Odato of Wadadia.