Thursday’s meeting between Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and businessman-cum-politician Suleiman Shahbal was full of political innuendos. Shahbal, who is widely touted as the preferred candidate to take the reins from Joho as Mombasa governor, was accorded more attention than other guests who had come to donate food to the county government for Mombasa people. Political observers say his donation was given a lot of attention and respect because of the person on whose behalf he was donating. “The food was from Raila Odinga, the Opposition chief and ODM party leader. The person receiving the food is the ODM deputy party leader. So, it had to be given the special attention it deserves,” said Mwakuja Mrombo, a political analyst. Shahbal, Deputy Governor William Kingi and Mombasa assembly speaker Aharub Khatri were all at Joho’s office buildings at the time. However, Joho was keen not to have his photos taken with the other two - Kingi and Khatri - according to Mrombo. “A photo in politics is a huge statement. At this time the calculations in Nairobi involve Shahbal and not any other. That is why Joho is always happy to have his photo taken with him more often,” Mrombo said. Kingi was sent to receive food donated by the Abagusii Welfare Association, Youth Drive led by nominated MCA Moses ‘Civiliser’ Aran, Toyota Kenya and the Institute of Engineers of Kenya. Khatri was present in the vicinity. All the while, Joho was meeting Shahbal in his main office. When the first batch of food was given, Joho appeared with Shahbal to receive food from Raila. At this time, Kingi went into his car and locked himself in while Khatri was seen following events from afar. Philip Mbaji, a political science student from Rabai, who has studied Coast politics, said the handshake changed all the plans that Mombasa politicians had. Mbaji and Mrombo said those who had set their eyes on the county’s top seat have since gone cold after the bromance between Shahbal and Joho blossomed. This bromance has since been extended to Raila who has now hosted Shahbal at least twice in the last one month. Shahbal has also hosted Raila twice in his house since August last year. In Mombasa, Shahbal has been working closely with Joho for the last three months or so. This includes working on mitigation measures against the coronavirus, which the businessman has been instrumental. On Thursday, Shahbal defended Joho over his outburst against Old Town residents, which led to a tense relationship between the governor and residents. “He was a little bit angry. I think it is because his saum that day was overwhelming,” said Shahbal. Saum is the hunger that bites when Muslims fast. He, however, said his words, though not expressed in the best way, were meaningful and important in fighting Covid-19. “He has the best interest of Mombasa residents at heart that is why he is worried about their health,” Shahbal said. Mrombo said Shahbal’s entrance into the scene has thrown plans by other possible candidates for Joho’s seat into disarray. Others who had expressed interest or were touted to be eyeing the seat include MPs Abdulswamad Nassir (Mvita), Ali Mbogo (Kisauni), Mishi Mboko (Likoni) and former county secretary Francis Thoya. All have since toned down their interests or have concentrated on other issues. On Friday, Mbaji said the handshake between Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta on March 9, 2018, changed things. “Uhuru was represented in Mombasa by Shahbal while Raila was represented by Joho. And by now, people know that Shahbal has established himself as the only formidable force after twice giving Joho a run for his money,” Mbaji said. The analyst said at the moment Shahbal is head over shoulders above any other candidate because of his financial strength, which will make it easy for any political party to support him. Mrombo said Shahbal has been clever in his political undertakings. “He has lost twice to Joho. On both occasions he lost a lot of money, almost Sh1.5 billion in campaigns. He is now a much wiser person,” Mrombo said. Shahbal has been keen to work with Raila, who is loved at the Coast and in Mombasa, and Joho, who has his way with Mombasa youth, who are the majority voters, Mrombo noted. “If you are also keen, he has been careful not to be seen with certain politicians deemed not clean. Because he knows in 2022, those with blemish will not succeed,” the analyst said. He noted that in 2022, it will be difficult for the IEBC to let anyone with a tainted past be on the ballot paper. Raila’s calculations, he noted, are meant to work against any possible plan that Deputy President William Ruto might have. Ruto has already courted former Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar Sarai, who is one of his political advisers. It is believed he will support Omar for the governor's seat against Shahbal. Edited by A.N