The National Assembly will be required to authorize the withdrawal of money from the consolidated fund in the event an impasse occurs between it and the Senate over the division of revenue bill in the future. The Supreme court in an advisory opinion said the move will safeguard the functionality of county governments while affording parliament an opportunity to resolve the deadlock through mediation. The money shall be included under separate votes for the several services in respect of which they were withdrawn.  County Assemblies will however be expected to re-adjust their respective budgets and appropriation bill accordingly. The Apex court said the percentage of money to be withdrawn shall be based on the equitable allocation to the counties in the division of revenue act for the preceding financial year, which translates to 50 percent of total equitable share. Assuming that 50 percent of the total equitable share allocated to counties in the preceding ear exceeds the total equitable share proposed in the division of revenue bill, then the percentage to be withdrawn from the consolidated fund shall not be less than 15 percent of all revenue collected by the national government. The 15 percent recommended in case of such an eventuality is derived from article 203 (2) of he constitution which provides that “for every financial year, the equitable share of the revenue raised national ha is allocated to county governments shall not be less than fifteen percent of all revenue collected by the national Assembly. The advise by the Supreme court emanates from a reference filed by the council of Governors last year over the the division of revenue bill. The first division passed by the national assembly on March 26 2019 and transmitted to Senate was eventually lost following its rejection by the latter. The mediation process that was triggered by the said rejection did not yield any concurrence between the two houses, hence the impasse. Senates version of the bill was also rejected by the National Assembly on August 8 2019. This triggered another mediation process. It wasn't until September 16 that the supreme court was informed that the two houses had finally agreed on a mediated version of the division of revenue bill ha was eventually passed into law. The Court noted that by the time the impasse was resolved, the country was three months into the financial year of 2019/2020. The stalemate not only led to delayed exchequer releases to the counties but also seriously affected their budget cycles. “The effects of this gridlock are still being felt in the entire financial system of county government. Its unsettling to imagine what would have happened had he impasse defied he second mediation process.” Observed the court. The Court however said Parliament cannot enact the Appropriation Act before the enactment of the division of revenue Act. Last year, before the resolution of the impasse, the National Assembly proceeded to enact the Appropriation Act. The enactment according to the Apex court had the potential of unlocking funds from he consolidated fund for expenditure by the national government while the counties remained in limbo as long as he impasse over the division of revenue bill persisted. The Supreme court Judges said in an ideal situation, the enactment of an appropriation act cannot precede the enactment of a division of revenue bill. This is so because the Cabinet Secretary in charge of finance submits the estimates of revenue and expenditure to the National Assembly in his capacity as the Chief budget officer. In his capacity the CS, he must base his estimates on the National Assembly governments share as provided for in the division of revenue bill.  The majority judges also said the recommendations of the Commission on Revenue Allocation are not binding on parliament. Chief Justice David Maraga on his part said parliament should never again subject the country to the anxiety it did last year. He said that it should join hands with the senate o ensure equitable distribution of the national cake. But in a dissenting opinion, Justice Njoki Ndung’u said the simple solution for the issue at hand is to point out to Parliament to solve the problem by enacting relevant legislation by amending the constitution. She said what the majority judges have done is meddle with a political and budgetary process in which they have no expertise.