Via a Zoom video link, he greeted the magistrate with passion, perhaps to make her change her mind, but it was not to be. “I am very fine your honour,” he said in a sober voice. James Eejimah was arrested in 2014 moments after alighting from an Etihad flight number EY641 at the JKIA. He was headed for Sao Paulo, Brazil, an area the investigating officer described as a well-known drug zone. Eejimah's trip was cut short after his arrest. He was taken to JKIA anti-narcotics office, found with cocaine worth Sh12 million, investigated and taken to court. He has been in custody for six years and longed to rejoin his family back in Nigeria. “Your honour, I request the court to help me go back to Nigeria,” he said. His pleas were dismissed. He will now pay a Sh15 million fine or serve one year in jail following his sentencing. Eejimah has  14 days to appeal. The charge sheet said Eejimah, on November 1, 2014, at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, Nairobi, jointly with others not before the court, was found trafficking 3,120 grammes of cocaine concealed into two laptop bags. The drug had a market value of Sh12.48 million. Prosecutor Nancy Kerubo called key witnesses who testified before closing her case. According to the witnesses, the accused was arrested by police officers based at the airport when he stopped over en route to Sao Paulo, Brazil. "We arrested him with a passport number A05277425. The travel documents indicated that he was travelling to Sao Paulo, Brazil, a drug zone country,” an investigating officer told the court. He said the accused had disembarked from an Etihad flight number EY641. The officer added that he led the suspect to the anti-narcotics office where a search was done. “It was noted that he had two laptops, which were found with false sides, a white substance suspected to contain narcotics,” he told the court. On November 3, 2014, the substance was weighed and sampled. The cop said a preliminary test pointed to cocaine. “The sampling indicated the whitish substance was 3.12 kilogrammes of cocaine with a street market value of Sh12,480,000,” he added. Another officer, Constable Joseph Indeke, said he weighed the drug and government analysts Maina Chege confirmed that the substance was cocaine. The court heard that the exercise was done in the presence of the accused person and photographs were taken by crime scene officer Edwin Manyoki. In his defence, the accused said he never committed the offence and denied being a drug dealer. He said he was a family man and requested to be allowed to serve his sentence in Nigeria. But senior principal magistrate Esther Boke, while sentencing him, said, "I have analysed both the defence and the prosecution's case and found that you deserve to pay a fine of Sh15 million or serve one year in jail. You will be taken back to Nigeria after you have completed your jail term." (Edited by F'Orieny)