Rainfall is expected to continue over several parts of the country with most parts of the country likely to record are reduction in rainfall amounts. This is according to a Meteorological weather forecast for the period of May 12 to May 18. In their brief, the weatherman indicates that most parts of the country are likely to experience a reduction in rainfall amounts. However, occasional heavy rainfall may occur over some parts of the Lake Victoria Basin, the Highlands West of the Rift Valley, the Central and South Rift Valley and the Highlands East of the Rift Valley. These places include; Siaya, Kisumu, Homabay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia Counties Met noted that their mornings are likely to be sunny for much of the forecast period with a few areas receiving rainfall on Tuesday morning. Afternoon showers and thunderstorms are likely to occur over several places on Tuesday, Friday, Saturday and Monday and over a few places on the other days. "Evening showers are likely to occur over a few places throughout the forecast period," Met noted. The Northwestern area that is; Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu Counties are likely to be sunny and nights partly cloudy for much of the forecast period. "Afternoon showers and thunderstorms may occur over a few places on Tuesday," Met said. Highlands East of the Rift Valley (including Nairobi area), Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu, and Tharaka Counties are likely to be cloudy in the mornings breaking to sunny intervals. Afternoon showers are likely to occur over a few places on all days except on Friday when they may spread to several places. Evening showers are likely to occur over a few places between Tuesday and Friday. The rest of the nights are likely to be partly cloudy. Northeastern (Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo Counties) are likely to experience sunny and cloudy nights for much of the forecast period. Afternoon showers may occur over a few places on Tuesday. Southeastern Lowlands (Kajiado, Kitui, Makueni, Machakos and Taita Taveta Counties) are likely to be sunny and nights partly cloudy for much of the forecast period. Afternoon showers may occur over a few places on Thursday and Friday. The Coastal Strip (Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale Counties), morning and early afternoon showers are likely to occur over a few places between Tuesday and Friday.