Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has urged landlords to accept rentals in instalments. He said that would help in cushioning their tenants from the effects of the Covid-19 crisis. Mutua spoke at his Machakos office on Monday as he received donations from organisations based in Machakos county. He said Kenyans should come out to protect one another so together they can win the war on the virus. He said landlords should accept 25 per cent of rental and agree with their tenants to stagger payments of the remaining 75 per cent over a given period. "It's a very sad situation. Every day I hear people have been chased out of their houses. It will be a very kind act for landlords to come in agreement with their tenants and see how they will pay the rent in instalments," he said. The county chief argued that many Kenyans are already struggling to make ends meet, hence allowing partial payments of rentals will enable them to buy food and cater for other pressing needs. "This pandemic has paralysed business all over the country and as it is, many people have been left jobless. So let's prioritise lives first," he said. Mutua received a donation of Sh2 million from SBM Bank and Alpharama Limited, a shoe manufacturing factory based in Athi River. The money will be shared out among vulnerable families. The county also received 100 tanks from the Kenya Association Manufacturers. The Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation, through Njimia (K) Limited, also donated Sh1 million sanitiser. Shelter Afrique, a bank with branches in 42 countries, donated foodstuffs to be distributed to more than 2,000 families. Mombasa Cement donated 25 tonnes of maize flour. The Kenya Secondary School Heads Association also donated 20 water tanks, 20 stands and 1,000 bottles of sanitiser. Mutua was accompanied by five MPs from Machakos, namely Victor Munyaka (Machakos Town), Vincent Musyoka (Mwala), Stephen Mule (Matungulu), Charles Kilonzo (Yatta) Joyce Kamene Kasimbi (Woman Representative). Also present were county assembly speaker Florence Mwangangi and Deputy Governor Francis Maliti. Mutua urged the national government to promote goods produced in Kenya, instead of imports, to spur local enterprises. "For many years, we've had a thirst for importing goods and services, such that our innovation and industrialisation spirit has been subdued. I urge both levels of government to reduce bureaucracy to streamline taxation by ensuring that we promote exports of finished goods, grow wealth and facilitate employment." The governor also pleaded with well-wishers to provide support. "I appeal to other organisations to support us, so we can assist the vulnerable in our society. I wish to thank businesses and well-wishers who have today made donations to cushion our people from the Covid-19 economic hard times," he said.  (Edited by O.F.)