Kibera is likely to be put under stiffer anti-Covid-19 measures to contain the rapid spread of coronavirus in the slum, Health CAS Rashid Aman said on Sunday. Aman said despite progress by the rapid response team working in conjunction with the Nairobi county health teams to conduct contact tracing, the estate remains an area of great concern. He did not disclose which options are available but noted that the measures will be stiff. He noted that the contact tracing to isolate those who may have come into contact with the positive individuals is bearing fruits. “It still remains an area of concern in terms of when it will trigger a certain measure to be placed on it [lockdown]. I think that is something that is always under consideration and we wait to see what type of measure might be necessary there,” Aman said. Nairobi county now has a total of 1,032 positive cases. So far, Kibera has recorded 151 positive cases, with almost 100 being reported in the last week. Eastleigh — already under lockdown — has 121 positive cases, with Lang’ata, which neigbours Kibera,  has recorded an exponential rise in cases in the past few days. “Circumstances within informal settlements present challenges so we will have to look at this very carefully. This is on the table, the trigger point when we feel is necessary decision will be made and you will become aware of that at that time,” the CAS said. For instance, apart from being densely populated, residents in informal settlements lack access to basic infrastructure and basic services such as clean and safe water. For Kibera, the largest slum in Nairobi and one of the largest in Africa, the biggest defences against the spread of Covid-19 such as social distancing and frequent hand washing, are nearly impossible. Other areas of concern are Makadara and Kawangware. Data from Sunday's briefing show that the number of positive cases in the country now stands at 1,962 after 74 more were confirmed. The 74 were from 1,574 samples tested in a day. The total number of tests conducted since the first case on M,arch 12 is now 78,536. Fourteen more people were discharged from hospital, bringing the total number of recoveries to 474. In terms of age, the new cases are aged between three and 79 years, comprising of 55 men and 19 women. Out of the total confirmed cases, 35 are from Nairobi, while 23 are from Mombasa. Busia had six cases, Kwale, Kajiado, Kiambu and Uasin Gishu recorded two each, while Kilifi, Laikipia and Taita Taveta had one each. Laikipia now joins the list of 33 other counties that have recorded at least one case. Lang’ata accounted for 19 of the 35 cases recorded in Nairobi, while Embakasi East and Central had three cases each. Dagoretti North, Westlands and Embakasi South had two cases each while Kasarani Kamukunji, Makadara and Starehe recorded one case each. One more patient form Kayole, however, succumbed to the virus, making the total number of fatalities in the country to 64. Acting Health director general Patrick Amoth had earlier said informal settlements are hotpsots for Covid-19. “That is why we are trying to focus more on informal settlements where sometimes is practically difficult to ensure physical and social distancing,” Amoth said. “So our message there is more of infection prevention control measures and use of masks to be able to prevent spread of the virus when we cough or sneeze or speak.” The DG noted that the importance of provision of water and sanitation facilities in the informal settlements cannot be under estimated in the fight against the virus. Edited by E.Kibii