Uasin Gishu residents have written to investigative agencies to stop a plan by the county to buy the National Bank building in Eldoret at Sh570 million for extra office space. This is after the county assembly hurriedly approved a proposal by Governor Jackson Mandago's administration for the plan. Through Tripple K Advocates, the residents have written to the Senate, the Controller of Budget, EACC, DCI and other organs seeking to have the plan investigated. Led by Benjamin Kiptanui Magerer of Turbo, they argue that there was no public participation in the plan as required by law and that the building was over-valued. Magerer said the county claims in its purchase plan that it needs more offices yet contradicts itself by saying the same building will be leased to the bank for six years. “This clearly defeats the purpose for which the county says it needs extra offices because it does not plan to use the building," Magerer said. The county assembly had last year shot down the deal due to questions over the valuation of the building that is in a dilapidated state and lack of necessary approvals. A report on the same deal was, however, brought back to the assembly on Sunday. Eight MCAs rejected the purchase while 32 backed it. MPs, led by Kapseret's Oscar Sudi, have opposed the deal while some residents have threatened to go to court to stop it. Sudi says the deal is suspect and a waste of public money. This is the first time Mandago has publicly differed with Sudi. In a social media post, Sudi told Mandago to stop the purchase, warning that “Uasin Gishu county does not have fools”. Sudi says the county has land on which to build its own facilities at cheaper costs. He said Governor Alfred Mutua of Machakos had used about Sh300 million to build state-of-the-art county offices and wondered why the Uasin Gishu deal is so costly. MCAs who opposed to the deal said the county had many stalled projects which should be completed to benefit residents. “We don’t need more offices in town because county staff are supposed to be deployed in the wards to serve residents but not to idle in Eldoret,” Huruma MCA Peter Chomba said. The building is located adjacent to the current county headquarters along Uganda Road in Eldoret town. However, a spot check at the current county offices revealed that many offices are not in use and have been abandoned. The eight MCAs who opposed the purchase include Chomba, Francis Muya (Langas), Gilbert Tenai (Cheptiret), Phillip Melly (Moi's Bridge), Edwin Maraswo (Simat), Samwel Choge (Tapsagoi) and Mary Goretti (nominated). All the other MCAs passed the motion. Edited by R.Wamochie