A Nairobi court has declined to stop the payment of Sh18 million by a plastic manufacturer to a lawyer owed for representing the firm in a Sh2 billion compensation suit. Eddy Orinda had sued Mahesh Dodhia, director of Hi-Plast Limited, who failed to pay him the money after the advocate represented him in seven matters. However, Mahesh filed an application seeking to set aside the proceedings and order that the matter be set down for hearing and determined on merit. Mahesh argued that he gave a personal undertaking to reimburse and pay Orinda his professional fees. Orinda had represented the firm against the state following the ban on single-use plastic bags. Mahesh said the correspondence between him and Orinda was made in his capacity as the director and not in his personal capacity and the lawyer ought to have sued the company and not him. Orinda responded by stating that there was a contractual relationship between him and Mahesh as he took over the debt between him and the company and executed the contract. He agreed that Mahesh made one payment before he defaulted and he had tried to negotiate with him but failed. Orinda represented Mahesh through Hi-Plast Ltd which sought compensation, arguing the plastic ban had caused him losses, having invested heavily in machinery and raw materials as well as defaulted on loan repayments. The lawyer also helped stop the auction of the businessman's Industrial Area bags factory and Westlands properties valued at more than Sh500 million after defaulting on an I&M Bank loan. The court granted Hi-Plast Ltd protection from creditors after allowing the firm to go into administration, which provides a cover against property auction. The documents said Mahesh undertook, in his personal capacity, to pay  Orinda Sh18 million in 27 equal instalments of Sh400,000 beginning October 25, 2019. The tycoon also promised to pay the lawyer Sh7.2 million in a lump sum in December before resuming the monthly instalments. However, Commercial Court chief magistrate L Gicheha agreed that Mahesh entered into the agreement in his own capacity and could not say it was on behalf of the company. She added if it was on behalf of the company, the intention should have come out clearly in the agreement. “I therefore find that the defence does not raise any reasonable doubt and the application has no merit and is dismissed with costs,” she ruled. Edited by Henry Makori