Veteran trade unionist and politician Kimani Wanyoike lived to rue the 10 minutes he was mobbed by supporters on August 18, 1995, before he tried -unsuccessfully - to present his party nomination papers for the Kipipiri by-election. Popular though he was, those 10 minutes cost him the seat. He arrived at the returning officer's office at 1.10pm, only to be told that he was time-barred. Wanyoike, who died on Wednesday aged 85, was a victim of his popularity and,  perhaps, the scheming of his political opponents. Politicians have since time immemorial been schemers within and outside their political outfits to outwit their opponents. The Kipipiri by-election was set for October 4. Wanyoike was to run on then popular Ford Asili party ticket. So popular was Ford Asili in Central Kenya that even a dog, according to Kanu secretary-general Joseph Kamotho, would have won if it was sponsored by the party. Indeed, party secretary-general Martin Shikuku had handed Wanyoike the nomination certificate in August 1995. But his opponents - Peter Njuguna and James Githinji - would not give up without a fight. They successfully obtained a court order from a Nakuru magistrate's court barring the returning officer from accepting Wanyoike's nomination papers. That triggered a political fight. Wanyoike, a man not known to shy away from a fight, decided to beat his adversaries in their own game. He rushed to the High Court in Nyeri and obtained a stay order against the subordinate court’s decision. The judge also ordered the case to be transferred and heard at the High Court in Nakuru. With the nomination certificate safely in his pocket, Wanyoike hardly paid attention. After all he had blocked the  magistrate’s orders - he would present his nomination papers. He embarked on the return journey to Kipipiri to present his papers. Outside the returning officer’s offices, he was mobbed by enthusiastic supporters keen to know what had happened in Nyeri and why he was almost late. The 10 minutes he spent with his supporters, he later realised, were too precious to his opponents and too costly t0 him. At the time, regulation 15 of the Electoral Commission of Kenya required that the presentation of nomination papers for the national assembly and presidential elections was to be between 8am and 1pm. Wanyoike got into the hall 10 minutes past 1pm. His nomination was promptly rejected. He unsuccessfully challenged the decision the following day at the High Court in Nakuru through lawyer Gitobu Imanyara. “Time had been wasted due between Nyeri and Kipipiri. There had also been some difficulties when obtaining the High Court order. But the applicant and his advocate managed to get to the venue of nomination before 1pm. "The applicant was surrounded by his supporters who naturally wanted to know what had happened and the applicant took more than 10 minutes to enter the venue and present his papers. He was late and his papers were rejected,” the judges said and dismissed his application to be declared duly nominated. But this was not the only instance Wanyoike had to fight for his political relevance. In 1997, he unexpectedly thrust himself into the presidential race, catching his enemies and friends unawares. He jumped ship from Kenneth Matiba's Ford Asili to form Ford People after Matiba disowned him. “It was necessary to form this party to avoid a situation where we are left without a party,” Wanyoike said during Ford-P’s launch. In the polls, Wanyoike garnered 8,306 votes out of the total 6.1 million votes cast. The veteran politician died after a long illness in a Nairobi hospital. President Uhuru Kenyatta eulogised him as fearless leader who made an indelible mark in the Kenya’s democratisation journey. “He was a firm believer in social justice,” the head of state said. ODM leader Raila Odinga mourned him as " a distinguished trade unionist, second liberation activist and legislator."  - mwaniki fm