Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti has told health workers in the county that he can't address all their demands. The governor told doctors, nurses, clinicians and other medical officers that his administration cannot address all the challenges they face, most of them money-related. “I want to be frank here. My administration cannot address all the challenges and demands of the medics, even though they play a critical role in human life,” Awiti said on Tuesday. Addressing health workers when he handed over a consignment of personal protective equipment (PPEs) in his office, Awiti said his administration cannot promise what it cannot deliver. He said he cannot give risk allowance to the health workers during the Covid-19 pandemic but fail to sustain the payment in the future. “Homa Bay budget allocations shouldn’t end in meeting recurrent expenditure. I cannot start something which will become a burden to us in the future,” Awiti said. Homa Bay medics, through their unions, have on several occasions accused the county of failure to meet their demands, leading to strikes and go-slows in some instances. They have complained of delayed salary payment, lack of allowances, delayed remittance of statutory deductions, lack of promotions, shortage of doctors and failure to comply with their signed collective bargaining agreement. Some Homa Bay medics had requested the government to give special attention to those who are on the frontline in combating Covid-19 to minimize the spread of the virus to their families. They argued that their colleagues in other counties were being given risk allowances. But Awiti said Homa Bay is a rural county that struggles to generate revenue that cannot meet all the demands by the medics. “The revenues from boda boda and fishing sectors are very meagre and can’t address all the challenges. We also face delays in funds remittance from the National Treasury,” he added. The governor, however, told the medics that his administration is working closely with leaders and partners to improve their welfare. He said some issues facing health workers will be addressed at the Council of Governors meeting. “My office has also engaged Homa Bay assembly on how county doctors and nurses can be motivated to work,” he added. Awiti also distributed maize, beans and rice to hundreds of flood victims in Kochia and Central Karachuonyo. County executive members present were Nicholas K’Oriko (Finance), Richard Muga (Health) and Homa Bay Covid-19 emergency fund committee chairman Ken Onditi and member Joshua Orero. Muga said through collaboration with the Kenya Red Cross, they have issued out PPEs such as goggles, face masks, boots, gloves and gowns to the medics. “Health department also received a vehicle from Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric Aids Foundation,” Muga said. Edited by EKibii