ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi on Saturday met with Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago sparking off speculation about the purpose of the meeting in Nairobi. It was not clear what the two leaders discussed. During the 2017 general elections, opposition chiefs including Mudavadi and ODM leader Raila Odinga endorsed Mandago's re-election at an opposition rally at the 64 Stadium in Eldoret. Mandago beat billionaire businessman Bundotich Buzeki in a close and titanic race for Uasin Gishu. But the governor has lately become a close ally of DP William Ruto. Sources said the two discussed national politics, the fight against Covid-19, devolution and economic matters. When reached for comment, however, their communication teams declined to comment on the matter. Recently, Mandago has been extensively quoted urging Kenyans and leaders not to have hard-line positions in politics. "Don't harbour deep political feelings in your heart because it will kill you. Politics should be in your lungs so that when you breathe it goes out without any difficulty," Mandago said. He said he is among those who fought hard against Raila in the last polls but was surprised that the opposition chief was not a frequent visitor in State House corridors. "That is when I decided not to harbour strong political feelings and always remain free in politics so that when things change I don't get shocked," he said. The governor had earlier in the week met DP Ruto and accompanied him to console the family of former MP Peter Kiilu. The meeting with Mudavadi has sparked speculation of a possible political deal between Ruto's camp and Mudavadi as part of realignments ahead of 2022 when Uhuru retires as president. Mudavadi has of late been meeting leaders from various political sides at his Musalia Mudavadi Centre in Nairobi as he strategises on running for the top seat in 2022. He has dismissed as untrue reports that he was to sign a coalition with Jubilee noting that ANC is still a member of NASA and cannot be in two coalitions. "Mudavadi can make a very good President. He is a sober leader and one who will do the job. Not learning on the job," ANC supporter said Jeremy Kiptoo said in Eldoret. Edited by R.Wamochie