 The lockdown of Eastleigh to contain the spread of Covid-19 has adversely affected Meru miraa farmers. Eastleigh is the main business hub of the stimulant grown mainly in Nyambene region. Most of the miraa chewed in Nairobi is sourced from Eastleigh. The market covers among other places Mlolongo, Rongai, Machakos, Westlands, Parklands, South B and South C, and Nairobi West. The resumption of normal business is uncertain both locally and internationally. On Thursday, a day after the lockdown, farmers pleaded with Meru county government to be cushioned against the loss of business. The coastal region, the other big miraa market, is also affected after the cessation of movement into and out of Mombasa, Kilifi and Kwale counties. Nyambene Miraa Traders Association (Nyamita) chairman Kimathi Munjuri said that while they support the government’s move to protect lives from the coronavirus pandemic, farmers and traders will suffer a lot. “We will consider relocation of the drop off point from Pumwani or have several destinations to ensure supply lines are not so badly disrupted,” Munjuri said. He lamented that the business will be gravely hurt by CS Mutahi Kagwe's directive on cessation of movement in and out of Eastleigh but acknowledge that it is best move to ensure the containment of the disease. He said miraa drivers and their co-drivers are also exposed and might transmit the disease to the county. “We are looking at how to secure drivers and co-drivers. We encourage the stakeholders in Eastleigh and Mombasa's Old Town to obey and embrace corona virus testing in additional to staying safe,” Munjuri said. Kagwe ordered a 15-day lockdown of Eastleigh and Old Town on Wednesday. The two are now the hotspost of the disease in the country. “This is to protect those within those areas. If you have a colleague in Eastleigh, don’t let them come to stay with you if they have not taken a test,” he said. Kenya had a total of 582 coronavirus positive cases by Wednesday. Forty seven were reported on the same day, 29 of them in Eastleigh. On Thursday, 25 more cases were confirmed pushing the total number to 607. A total of 29 people have now died from Covid-19 while 197 have recovered.  - mwaniki fm    