Kenya on Friday recorded 127 new cases of Covid-19, raising the number to 1,745, Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi has said. This is out of 3,831 samples tested in the last 24 hours. The cumulative tests conducted so far now is 74,003. All except one of the latest positive cases are Kenyans. Another 17 patients have been released, raising the total recoveries to 438. On a sad note, another four people have died, all from Mombasa. All the four had underlying conditions such as hypertension, diabetes and asthma. The cases are spread as follows; Nairobi 76, Mombasa 19, Busia 16, Uasin Gishu 8, Kiambu 2, Kajiado 5 and Isiolo with one case. The distribution of cases by subcounties in Nairobi is as follow: Kibra has 49 cases, Ruaraka 13, Makadara and Westlands with four cases each, Langata 2, with Embakasi West, Kasarani, Dagoretti North and Starehe have one case each. In Mombasa, the cases are from Kisauni with seven cases, Mvita 6, Nyali 3, Likoni 2 and Jomvu 1. Out of the 16 cases in Busia, eight are at Busia, two at Malaba points of entry and six at Alupe Quarantine Facility. The cases in Uasin Gishu are all from Turbo, while Kajiado, the cases are from Kajiado North with two cases and Namanga Border has three cases. In Kiambu, the two cases are from Kiambu town one and Kabete one case. As for Isiolo the case is from Isiolo town. During a press briefing on Friday at Afya House, CAS Mwangangi also warned Kenyans who are using unofficial routes (panya routes) to get in and out of the restricted areas. "I want to remind such people that Nairobi and Mombasa are currently the counties with the highest number of infections. Sneaking out of these areas is equivalent to sneaking the virus into the other counties," she said. She told those engaged in the practice they may think it is 'heroism', but "you may just have taken the virus to your family or friends". "Let me caution them that action shall be taken against such individuals. I want to appeal to our people in the other counties to be vigilant and report to the police anybody who may have recently travelled from Nairobi or Mombasa," Mwangangi said. "If we have to contain this pandemic,every Kenyan must take personal responsibility in this fight.