Three Rift Valley senators have come under attack for attending the Senate Parliamentary Group meeting at State House on May 11. The meeting, led by President Uhuru Kenyatta, replaced Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen and Majority whip Susan Kihikia with Samuel Poghisio and Irungu Kang'ata respectively. Deputy President William Ruto's allies led by Kapseret  MP Oscar Sudi have accused the trio of betraying the DP and the Kalenjin community. Uasin Gishu Senator Margaret Kamar, Trans Nzoia Senator Michael Mbito and Nominated Senator Alice Milgo attended the meeting and ratified the changes. A fourth leader, Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei, has also attracted the ire of Sudi, even though he signed a protest list to Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka in support of Murkomen. Cherargei has defended himself and circulated the list of those who were at State House to absolve himself from blame. “The list of those who went for mandazi and tea at State House is not a secret and my name does not appear there. These political games by some of us will not help at all,” Cherargei said. Sudi has taken the matter to Kalenjin radio stations where he hit out at the four senators as traitors. The quarrel has sparked a major debate and social media exchanges that have targeted the four senators. It’s claimed that the four were called on their mobile phones during the meeting but none picked, raising concern on their whereabouts when the DP's camp needed them. “It was not optional for them to sign the list we had in support of Murkomen and Kihika. It was a must and they did not sign. That means they were on the other side,” Sudi said. Political strategist Kipkorir Arap Birgen says the blame game and claims of betrayal against the DP could turn out to be politically damaging. “It's time the DP took the bold step of whipping his troupes before they cause harm and pain to his journey to the house on the hill. “In a good political strategy, they should be assigned specific roles to avoid overlap and internal conflicts; for instance gatekeeping, attack, snare and agent provocateurs,” Birgen said. Kamar’s supporters have exchanged words with those of Sudi on social media channels because of the attacks. Separately, the Kapseret MP has also picked up a quarrel with Governor Jackson Mandago of Uasin Gishu over a plan to buy the National Bank building in Eldoret at Sh570 million. Through a social media post, Sudi criticised Mandago over the deal. “You should know that Uasin Gishu has no foolish people,”  Sudi told the governor. (edited by o. owino)