 A multi-agency team has been deployed to Kirisia Forest in Samburu, following the destruction of at least 10,000 trees planted late last year. A source on Tuesday linked the destruction of seedlings last week to politics in the county. “There is some politics in it. We have one MP and MCA against conservation efforts. However, the majority of leaders from the county are for conservation," the source told the Star on phone, declining to be named because of the sensitivity of the issue. On Tuesday, Kenya Forest Service chief conservator Julius Kamau said those deployed include officers of the national administration. He confirmed the seedlings had been uprooted. “We are working with other agencies to reclaim the forest,” Kamau said. He said the Community Forest Association had also been involved to help raise awareness. “The multi-agency team will work together to restore the forest,” Kamau said. About 30 years ago, squatters invaded Kirisia Forest as a result of constant conflicts with neighbouring communities over grazing fields and water. On December 30 last year, the over 500 families voluntarily vacated some 225,982 acres of gazetted dry land forest, bolstering government efforts to increase tree cover to over 10 per cent by 2020. Kenya’s current forest cover is 7.2 per cent. Following the voluntary exit, Environment Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko led the restoration efforts. He said unlike the push and pull witnessed during the second phase of Maasai Mau evictions, the Kirisia squatters left peacefully. But Samburu political leaders kept off the exercise. "This is history. You are now in the world map as this is the first time those who got into the forest 30 years ago are moving out," Tobiko said. The CS said the movement of squatters from Kirisia Forest attracted no "noise, barazas or press conferences". "The Kirisia Forest is two times bigger than the Maasai Mau Forest. It has 10 rivers with indigenous trees such as sandalwood, red cedar, podo and a whole range of wildlife," Tobiko said. The government undertook phase I of the operations to recover Maasai Mau Forest in July-August last year. A total of 11,119.725 acres of forest land was recovered in Nkoben and Kosia areas. The second phase targeted Sierra Leone and surrounding areas measuring approximately 42,007.85 acres of forest land. The 60-day window for people to voluntarily move out lapsed on October 30. The squatters were kicked out despite protests from leaders opposed to the move. Tobiko had given orders that those who were still in Kirisia Forest had one month to move out. The CS urged politicians to desist from politicising environmental matters. "You know the importance of forests. Rains have reduced as a result of the destruction and when it rains, soils are washed away into the ocean," he said. Kamau then said the voluntary departure of squatters showed goodwill and trust that KFS would not take for granted. "The voluntary movement has given us more hope and aspiration to go to other complex areas," Kamau said. Kamau said the forest, which was gazetted in 1936, has rich biodiversity. "Already, 30,000ha of this forest has been destroyed. This is a third of the forest," Kamau said.  Edited by Henry Makori