Radio Africa has noted with concern the efforts by digital terrorists spreading fake news about a change in the company’s shareholding. "The majority shareholding in Radio Africa has not changed for the past twenty years nor is Radio Africa in discussion with anyone to offload a majority stake," said the company in a statement issued on Sunday. The company said it will continue to provide aggressive, principled and impartial journalism, which has become its hallmark for the past 20 years. "Media businesses the world over make clear political choices.  The Sun in the UK famously supported the Conservative party. The venerable New York Times in the US has a long history of endorsing political candidates at election time. "In the past 20 years, Radio Africa has elected not to exercise that right as a corporate citizen at any election. We report the political intrigues in the countries we operate in daily. We stand apart from it," the statement said. "We are committed to supporting a good-for-business government, which respects freedom of the press and total fidelity to Kenya’s Constitution and the rule of law." Radio Africa's relentless journalism has made many politicians uncomfortable in the past. "It will not be any different in the future—we will be relentlessly committed to the truth and indisputable facts," the statement added. In 2014, Time Media, a major South African media business, acquired 49 per cent of Radio Africa. The group later changed its name to Tiso Blackstar.  Last year, Tiso Blackstar agreed to sell its South African and African media investment interests (in Kenya, Ghana and Nigeria) to Lebashe Investment Group, another South Africa investment fund and black empowerment group. The sale of South African media assets was successfully concluded. The sale of the African assets was not consummated thereafter. The company’s radio stations in Kenya continue to be the most listened to in Nairobi. Approximately one in two of the city's 5 million residents choose Radio Africa stations according to independent research. Radio Jambo has emerged as the most influential radio station in Kenya, according to some media surveys. Radio Africa and its affiliates operate in Kenya, Uganda and Nigeria, where they operate leading radio stations.