The missing body of one of seven police officers whose lorry was swept away by floods in Baringo North last Thursday has been found. Driver Noah Kipng’eno's body was found on Monday evening along the seasonal River Suguta. It had been trapped by roots near Ng’inyany Bridge in Tiaty subcounty. Baringo North police commander Fredrick Odinga said on Tuesday that the officers' nine guns were missing. “Today marked the end of the five-day search for the seven bodies, our focus now is on the missing nine guns,” Odinga said. He said the retrieval of the body was frustrated by the heavy rains, rocky terrains and the raging waters. “It forced the team of expert divers from Kenya Defence Forces and Red Cross to dive into the water to cut the roots and collect the body,” he said. The incident occurred on Thursday as the driver attempted to cross the flooded River Kagir near Yatya at about 8pm. The passengers were Anti-Stock Theft Unit officers at Chemoe camp and General Duty officers from Yatya police post. County police boss Robinson Ndiwa said the officers were on patrol when the tragedy happened. By Sunday, six bodies out of seven had been collected as the recovery mission entered its third day. Officers Joseph Omboye, Andrew Menisa, Kingori Patrick and Cliff Nyakeniga managed to swim to safety. Ndiwa said the survivors are recuperating at the county referral hospital in Kabarnet town. Those who died are Bernard Sigei, Frederick Ouko, Victor Omollo, Samuel Nyakundi, Tanui Kipsang' and Martin Naibei. “One body was retrieved on Saturday buried in mud at Chesakam in Tiaty subcounty, 70 kilometres from the scene,” Ndiwa said. “Three choppers — two from police headquarters and one from KDF were assigned for the operation,” he said. Ndiwa praised the local divers, Kenya Air Force and Kenya Red Cross for their concerted efforts. County commissioner Henry Wafula said residents had guided the experts to locate the possible sites along the flooded seasonal river. “We will continue the search until all the missing guns are retrieved,” Wafula said. Governor Stanley Kiptis condoled with the families for the loss of their loved ones. “It is saddening to us as a county to have lost such patriotic souls who were ready to put their lives in danger to protect our people and property from armed bandits,” Kiptis said. He said the ongoing heavy rains made the access roads impassable in most parts of the county. “My administration is trying to repair the dilapidated roads and laying up some bridges across the flooded rivers to avert such controllable deaths,” he said Kiptis urged residents living in the lower parts of the area to consider moving to higher, safer grounds. (edited by o. owino)