Former Tetu MP Ndung'u Githenji has been accused of orchestrating the arrest of his younger brother Gitahi Gethenji over the multibillion-shilling Kihingo Village property in Kitsuru, Nairobi. On Friday, six police officers, from Gigiri police station led by the area subcounty Police Commander Richard Muguai, arrested Gitahi and three other private security personnel at the property under unclear circumstances. Gitahi was brought to the station at around 9am and was released at 5pm, after some homeowners and his lawyer Prof George Wajackoyah camped at the station demanding his release. Upon his release, Gitahi told the Star that the police boss, Muguai, assaulted him during the arrest and that officers made false charges against him. “This is an ongoing case and we have received a lot of frustration from certain quarters who claim to own Kihingo Village yet they have no way of proving they do,” he said. “The estate was built by our family under Kihingo Village Limited. We built 55 houses and a clubhouse and we sold to the residents. That being done, we, as the developers, have no claim there whatsoever...and if Ndung’u Gethenji believes he does, let him bring the proof…let him bring the documentation to prove that he owns anything at Kihingo village.” The estate has 55 palatial houses on 37 acres. “His (Ndung’u) misuse of the police department not once, not twice... I can’t even count it, on one hand, is an issue that needs to be looked at very seriously,” he added. He said that Muguai slapped him and punched him many times during the arrest. His lawyer condemned the manner in which his client was arrested. “Why would an OCPD not use his junior officers, come himself on site and arrest somebody beside the court order, assault him…justice needs to be done,” Wajackoyah said. “Goons are either brought in or police bribed to come in and this is a source of inequity within the police service…why would a senior police officer take the law into his hands by hitting my client?” He was released on a free bond and is expected to appear at Kiambu Law Courts on May 7 on charges of malicious damage to property. He is accused of malicious damage to property, but Gitahi told the Star he could not understand how he can damage his own property. He owns one of the 55 homes on the property. The police, he said, did not tell him what he had damaged after he was released on a free bond. Earlier, the OCPD, Muguai, told the Star that Gitahi was not under arrest and soon left the station. Former MP Gethenji and the home owners have been involved in a protracted property dispute that is the subject of a legal dispute in court.