Power battles in the Jubilee leadership of the County Assembly continue to persist as two MCAs claim to be the Leader of Majority. This comes as Dandora Three MCA Charles Thuo and Matopeni MCA Abdi Ibrahim Guyo released different press statements stating that both are the leader of the majority party. On Wednesday, in a press statement, Thuo claimed that his counterpart from Matopeni issued a misleading statement purporting to speak on behalf of the majority party as the majority leader. “I would also wish to caution our Members and the county at large regarding a misleading statement issued by the MCA for Matopeni Ward, Hon. Abdi Guyo Hassan purporting to be speaking on behalf of the majority party as the majority leader. It is a known fact that the Jubilee leadership in Nairobi City County Assembly has never changed,” Thuo said. On Tuesday, in a letter addressed to the Attorney General and Solicitor General Guyo had asked the two offices tow ignore letter written on Monday by Thuo, criticising the decision to annul the Supplementary Appropriations Bill, 2020. He maintained that he was the substantive majority leader following the confirmation by Jubilee Party and that the letter. However, on his side, Thuo maintained that he is still the leader of the Majority Party in the assembly until such a time when the Speaker communicates the changes on the floor. “Changes in leadership only take effect after Speaker receives communication and is convinced that proper process has been followed and then communicates on the floor,"  he said. Thuo has been the leader of Majority since last year in November after the Jubilee Party changed its leadership amid the fracas that had rocked the assembly since October. Work with NMS On Friday, Thuo maintained that he is still in charge and has urged Nairobi Governor Mike  Sonko to change his ‘attitude’ towards the deed of transfer and the Nairobi Metropolitan Service (NMS). “ The Governor should reach out to the county assembly in matters to do with the deed of transfer. If he has problems with it, we can deal with it at ‘home’ before he goes out at the President,” he explained. “That’s why I’m asking Governor Sonko to sit down with all stakeholders of the County Government not forgetting NMS and agree on how the county can move forward,” he added. Thuo said in the midst of dealing with Coronavirus pandemic, there was no point of having back and forth wrangles over functions that have already been handed over to the National Government. The same was echoed by Minority leader David Mberia who also urged President Uhuru  Kenyatta to take action on those who are derailing NMS effectiveness in Nairobi. ‘‘We are asking the president to use the same razor he used in the assembly to bring sanity in Nairobi. There shouldn't be any individual either from Nairobi County or National Government threatening to hinder the delivery of services to city residents,’’ he said. No new budget In addition, The Dandora MCA  dismissed any calling for a new supplementary budget, stating that time was a scarce factor for the assembly to consider it. He stated that the process of bringing and passing another supplementary budget will not be enough before June 30th, 2020 and the assembly should now focus on the Financial Year 2020-2021 budget. “The budget will have to go to various committee, we have to sit down with the executive and the time we have left won’t be enough,” Thuo said. On Monday the Government Printer revoked the publication of the Nairobi City County Supplementary Act, 2020 following an advisory opinion from the Solicitor General. As a result, Governor Sonko said the executive was preparing another supplementary budget to be considered by the assembly. His move was backed up by a section of MCAs from both sides of the house and affirmed to support the introduction of a new Supplementary Appropriation Bill to ensure that operationalization of NMS. NMS's operations have been affected by the wrangles pitting the Assembly and the executive.