Nairobi MCAs have affirmed their support for a new Supplementary Appropriation Bill to ensure that the Nairobi Metropolitan Services accomplishes its mission. The NMS has yet to start serving Nairobi residents due to wrangles pitting the County Assembly and the Executive. On Tuesday, Governor Mike Sonko said the county government will present a fresh Supplementary Appropriation Bill to the assembly for consideration. The announcement followed Monday's revocation of the Nairobi City County Supplementary Act, 2020 by the Government Printer after an advisory from the Solicitor General Kennedy Ogeto. The support for the new Supplementary Appropriation Bill came after a caucus of 50 Jubilee MCAs at Sonko’s Upper Hill office. After the caucus, they were joined by a few of their ODM colleagues in a meeting with the governor. The ward reps said the bill will be processed within the set timeline so that the NMS is allocated funds. Matopeni Abdi Hassan Guyo said they had reached out to the NMS for their input to be factored in the Supplementary Bill before it is forwarded to the assembly for consideration and approval as per the SG’s advisory. Guyo, who is the Majority leader in the assembly, called on his counterparts to cooperate and pass the bill for funds to be released to the NMS. He at the same time asked the State Law Office to ignore a letter from the assembly issued on Monday, criticising the revocation of the Supplementary Act. The Majority leader said letters from outside either the Speaker's office or the Clerk's office should be treated as an individual's opinion and not a representation of the assembly. Guyo maintained he is the substantive leader of the Majority as per April 16 confirmation letter by Jubilee secretary-general Raphael Tuju. Tuju announced the reinstatement of Guyo, replacing Dandora Area 3 MCA Charles Thuo. He picked Mihango MCA Paul Kados as the Majority Whip. Kados took over from nominated MCA June Ndegwa. Thuo and Ndegwa are closely associated with Speaker Elachi. Thuo maintains he is the leader of the Majority until the Speaker communicates otherwise on the floor of the House. “Changes in leadership only take effect after Speaker receives communication and is convinced that proper process has been followed and then communicates on the floor,"  he said. The assembly is on recess. The plenary sittings resume next month.  - mwaniki fm