The UN- Food and Agriculture Organisation says Isiolo and Samburu counties are currently the epicentres of the desert locust invasion. According to the locust watch released on Saturday, immature and mature swarms in northern Kenya and southern Ethiopia are still present where they are maturing and laying eggs. “A few more hopper bands have been reported in the northern county of Marsabit, but the majority of hatching has yet to occur or be detected," the locust watch says. Agriculture PS Hamadi Boga said on Friday that the ongoing control operations have led to a decrease in the locust swarm population in parts of Isiolo, and the winds have started moving the swarms to Turkana. So far 12 of about 18 counties where the locusts had been sighted and reported by February, are affected. The government says it has so far released Sh540 million for locust control and with more support from FAO, the World Bank and other donor partners, there are enough resources to contain the menace in the next three months. FAO has confirmed that the locust threat is extending to new areas and that Sudan, and perhaps the Sahel of West Africa, could face an impending invasion from spring breeding areas. In Ethiopia, some swarms have spread to other areas of the country, mainly in the East, including the Somali region and the Ogaden where breeding is underway and hopper bands have formed. In Somalia, breeding is in progress in the Northwest and, in the past few days, in the Northeast and could eventually cause groups and swarms to form. The locust watch further shows that in West Africa, there is a risk that a few swarms could reach the eastern part of the Sahel in eastern Chad from spring breeding areas in Arabia and East Africa (Kenya and Ethiopia). "The swarms would first appear in Sudan where it is currently dry and the situation is calm. If they arrive in Sudan before the summer rains, then the swarms are likely to continue westwards across the Sahel from Chad to Mauritania. In addition, the update shows that the first appearance in eastern Chad could be as early as the second week of June from Arabia and the last week of June from East Africa," FAO says. "While the current threat is assessed as low, it can change significantly during this month due to rainfall, winds, and spring breeding in Arabia and East Africa. Therefore, investment in preparedness and anticipatory actions should be immediately and quickly scaled up to face this potential threat."  (Edited by F'Orieny)