One Sunday, in my teens, I went to church and the teaching by the preacher was about how the young Jewish rabbi, Jesus, recruited his disciples. He made good points, but what jumped out at me was when the preacher read out what Jesus said to his prospects: “follow me and I will make you fishers of men.” It was a bold statement to make to men who barely know him. At that point, Jesus had no track record, but He knew his capacity and was sure of what he could make of these men. That day, I found the essence of leadership. “Follow me and I will make you ________” Fill in the blank. Every effective leader is clear on what they will make the people who decide to follow them. Also, every leader who wishes to be effective must answer this question: what will I make those who decide to follow me? Jesus knew how to make ordinary fishermen fishers of men. What is your bold claim? If I followed you for twelve months, who would I become under your leadership? At 16, I came across a book in my dad’s library titled, Be All You Can Be, by the leadership guru, John C. Maxwell; it was the first book that I read by the author. I read it, got hooked, and have followed him ever since. From then on, I have read most of his books. Over 20years later, I am now a member of the John Maxwell Team of coaches, trainers, and speakers. As I read his book the first time, I could hear the author whisper through its pages, “follow me and I will make you an effective leader.” Two decades later, he continues to keep his promise and I am still following. This bold statement by Jesus is how you measure a leader’s impact; it is how you get to know the nature of a leader’s heart. If you want to understand a leader’s effectiveness, check the quality of the people who have followed them so far. What have they become following the leader? The heart of a leader is revealed by the quality of the people led; they are the leader’s products – they attest to the quality of the leader’s heart. Anyone can assume a leadership position, but those who will be effective have a bold claim that they clearly communicate. What is yours? Now, fill in the blank: “follow me and I will make you ________”  Email: smpamugo@gmail.com