A baby reported to be one-month-old who had been quarantined in Busia has been freed together with the mother. Social media went wild with condemnation of the decision by authorities in Nambale subcounty to lock up Caroline Akumu with her infant in a classroom with no bedding and no food at Kisoko Girls High School. The woman is said to have been arrested while roasting maize along the road in Nambale town in the afternoon before she was whisked away to the quarantine centre. Kisoko Girls High School where she was taken is among institutions designated as quarantine centres in Busia county. It took the intervention of Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko, Nominated Senator Millicent Omanga, local leaders and Fida to secure freedom for Akumu and her baby. Police and the county government were heavily criticised for allowing the two to be quarantined in pathetic conditions. The county government, however, later clarified that it was responsible for her detention. Nambale police station OCS Rolex Nyoka said his officers did not arrest the woman. “It is the county enforcement officers who arrested her. We only used the police vehicle to take her to the quarantine facility,” he told the Star on phone. “But she was released on Thursday at around 8pm. We took her up to her home and the two are in good health.” Earlier, Sonko and Omanga had wanted to know the circumstances under which the woman was detained. Omanga said: “It saddens that police in Busia county forced a mother with her child into a bed-less quarantine room and she is expected to foot the bill after 14 days. You mean she will pay Sh2,000 per day for sleeping on the floor? This Kenya!” Sonko had requested to know where the woman was quarantined. “Where is this and what's going on?” the Nairobi county chief said on his official Facebook page. Rural Education and Economic Enhancement Programme executive director Mary Makokha said the decision by authorities to detain the woman who was sleeping on a carton with her child at the quarantine centre was inhuman. “Can the department of children’s affairs come and act in the best interest of the child? But again that is Busia for you,” she said. Western Development Initiative Association chairman Joseph Barasa said such inhuman treatment should never be tolerated in the 21st century where human rights are expected to be jealously guarded. Edited by Henry Makori