Jubilee has confirmed leadership changes intended to end wrangling at City Hall ahead of tomorrow's (Tuesday's) resumption of county assembly business. Secretary-general Raphael Tuju told speaker Beatrice Elachi in a May 28 letter affirming the changes that the party “… for the avoidance of doubt, wishes to set out the majority party leadership in the Nairobi City County Assembly" and drew up the leadership line-up. The party reinstated Matopeni MCA Abdi Ibrahim Guyo as Majority leader and  picked Mihango MCA Paul Kados as the Majority Whip. Guyo replaced Dandora Area 3 representative Charles Thuo. He will be deputised by Dandora Area 1 MCA Peter Wanyoike. Kados, who took over from nominated MCA June Ndegwa, will be deputised by South B MCA Waithera Chege. Tuju said the changes were made after wide consultations and in accordance with the Nairobi County Standing Order 20 and asked Elachi to ensure seamless delivery of service. The party had on November 12, 2019, provided interim leadership. On Saturday, Tuju said his May 28 letter was authentic and that it was stamped to avoid duplication. “By the time I did the first letter in April, the decision had been made. In the previous letter, the Speaker said it was not addressed to her so we had to do another letter," he said. He added: “This assembly is very interesting. We know the MCAs have a lot of differences among themselves. I don’t understand them, but the party had made its decision and will continue making changes if there is need to.” Reached for a comment, Elachi said she had not received any letter from the secretary-general as she has not been physically in the office. “I have only seen a letter circulating on social media addressed to me. It is only when I receive it physically and (confirmed) its authenticity that I will proceed to communicate the changes," she said. The letter was, however, received by the clerk of the assembly. Internal wrangles have been common among Jubilee MCAs since the return of Elachi in October 2019. The MCAs are divided in pro- and anti- Elachi team. Some allied themselves with their ODM counterparts. The party had on  November 12, 2019, named Thuo the interim Majority leader in an attempt to restore calm in the assembly. However, in April, Jubilee again changed the leadership, raising confusion.  Some legislators ‘snubbed’ the changes. The Star established that there had been lobbying from both camps with the former interim leaders working to retain their positions and the ousted fighting to be reinstated. Several meetings were held on how the Jubilee leadership in the assembly would be sorted out.  The decision was made on April 16. “The final meeting was held Thursday when the changes were finally made. In both the informal and formal meetings, Murathe (David) has been at the driving seat of the negotiations and consultations. The President was also highly involved in the negotiations. The final decision came from him,” said one of the sources then. Murathe is the JP vice-chairman. Elachi had been concerned that her office had not been served with the letter from the party communicating the changes. The changes had been communicated to  new whip Kados who, as per the Standing Order 20, submitted to Elachi the minutes of  Jubilee MCAs' meeting to change the leadership and signatures. Fifty three out of 65 Jubilee MCAs appended their signatures supporting the removal the ousted leadership. The ousted leaders claimed their removal was due to their support the for Nairobi Metropolitan Services.  - mwaniki fm 