President Uhuru Kenyatta has the power and right to clean up his Jubilee Party, the Kikuyu council of elders has said. The council's national chairman Wachira Wa Kiago said that the President should not be judged or blamed for changes in the party. On Monday, Uhuru sacked Elegeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and Nakuru's Susan Kihika as Majority leader and Majority whip respectively. Their places were taken by Samuel Poghisio and Irungu Kang'ata. The changes have been opposed by leaders allied to Deputy President William Ruto. But Kiago said that it is not the first time that Mt Kenya region leaders have been divided over leadership. “Just like the time of the late politician Kenneth Matiba and [retired President Mwai] Kibaki, Mt Kenya region also was split,” he said. In the end, the leader of the dominant party in the region always gave a direction. This is the direction that the President has taken and we should follow it, Kiago said. Secretary general Peter Munga said that Uhuru should not be afraid or stop doing what is right by Jubilee Party. “The president is the head of the party and he cannot waste time with people who do not want unity,” Munga said. He said that Central Kenya people should not allow themselves to be divided by people from outside. “There is nothing wrong with the President removing people who are opposing his agenda. We should accept that and move on to serve Kenyans,” Munga said. Kiago said the government should consider reopening the economy because the World Health Organization has said that the coronavirus will continue to haunt the world. “Businesspeople should be allowed to reopen but rules and guidelines should be followed,” Kiago said. The elder said people are suffering at home due to lack of money to fend for themselves and the government cannot feed everyone. He said that having a curfew or lockdown is not the solution since  Kenyans are not obeying public health guidelines. Kiago said that the Ministry of Health has done a good job in cautioning Kenyans over the Covid-19. Kenyans ought to be vigilant and keep themselves safe, he said. (edited by o. owino)