Interior CAS Hussein Dado has warned Kenyans against listening to advice from foreign administrations. Speaking in Mombasa, Dado appeared to be faulting Tanzania’s authorities, saying some administrations have been using dubious means to drive their own views. “Let us not be misled by people who have decided to test camels, tomatoes and bananas then they tell us they have seen some test positive,” he said. Tanzanian President John Magufuli on May 3 dismissed imported coronavirus test kits as faulty, saying secret tests done using the kits returned positive results on samples taken from pawpaws, goats and sheep. He has since suspended the head of the country’s head of national health laboratory in charge of the coronavirus testing. Tanzania has drawn criticism from across the globe for her secretive nature about the Covid-19 cases. Speaking to journalists while on a tour of the Old Town in Mombasa on Monday, Dado said scientifically, the reagents used in Covid-19 test kits were made specifically to test for the coronavirus. “So, if you put any other element it will give you a false positive or a false negative. That is science,” said Dado. He said Kenyans should not listen to any other administration apart from that of the Government of Kenya. “If they listen to propaganda from outside, with others taking advantage of that to insult their fellow leaders, it will be wrong,” Dado said. The government announced a cessation of movement in and out of Old Town for 15 days from May 6 after the area became the epicentre of the virus in Mombasa. As of Monday evening, there were 237 Covid-19 cases in Mombasa, with Old Town leading with 67. The number of Covid-19 related deaths in Mombasa is 17, nine of which are from Old Town. The Kenya Ports Authority and Ganjoni reported two deaths each, while Bamburi, Kisauni, Majengo and Nyali have one case each. In the last 11 days, Mombasa county has been recording an average of 10 positive cases per day, with an average of one person dying daily due to Covid-19. Dado said Old Town residents, who are predominantly Muslim, should follow the Quran teachings, which directs that people obey their leaders. “The Quran says obey your Allah, and the Prophet and your leadership because leadership is chosen by God. So, you should follow our administration and not miracles from other regions,” he said. He also warned against listening to relatives living abroad who incite Kenyans against their leaders. Videos of Kenyans from Old Town living in the US who have been insulting Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho have gone viral ever since the county chief scolded residents over their refusal to get tested. Edited by A.N