People arrested for breaking the curfew will no longer be held at designated government quarantine facilities. This is after the National Emergency Response Committee directed the Inspector of Police Hillary Mutyambai to designate separate holding facilities. Initially, those arrested would be held at quarantine centres across the country. The holding places will, however, be required to adhere to the ministry’s requirement of social distancing. Kenya now has 465 coronavirus cases, after Health CAS Rashid Aman confirmed 30 more cases, the highest in a day, on Sunday Aman said Kenyans should follow measures put in place by the ministry to stop the spread. “I want to remind Kenyans that as we continue to address Covid-19 pandemic, the other health services must continue to be provided. We are aware that Kenyans may be keeping away from utilising health facilities for fear of contracting the virus from our facilities” the CAS said. The 30 were from 883 samples tested in a day. The total number of tests done is 23,780. Fifteen more people were discharged from hospital, bringing the total number of recoveries at 167. The new cases are aged between four and 64, which comprised of 23 men and seven women. Eight are from Nairobi while 19 are from Mombasa while Bungoma and Kitui recorded two and one case respectively. On a sad note, however, two more patients died with coronavirus, bringing the total fatalities in the country to 24. The government has, however, expressed concern that residents in areas identified as hotspots are not coming out in large numbers to be tested in the ongoing targeted mass testing. For instance in Kawangware, only 803 people have come out for testing against the government target of 2,000, while Eastleigh recorded a turn-out of 474 against the target of 3,000. Amna expressed concern about this. “I want to remind Kenyans that there are countries where people beg to be tested, yet their governments are unable to do so.  As of now, the ministry has acquired the capacity to undertake the targeted testing but the willingness of the people to be tested is low,” he said. He appealed to Kenyans to willingly come forward and get tested to help flatten the curve. The CAS also said the government has noted with dismay the casual attitude with which some people are ignoring Covid-19 directives. "For instance, some eateries are not only operating without any regard to social distancing requirement but also deep into curfew hours," Aman added. Matatus and boda boda operators have also been accused of going back to old normal ways. “There is the public outcry that some hoteliers are not observing the protocols we have established. The government will assess and determine whether these measures can continue or need to be reviewed if need be,” Aman added. “If we do not abide by the containment measures the spread of this disease will be extensive and will be very difficult to contain,” he warned. Mosques have been put on notice after it emerged they have revised time and are now opening for prayers at night. The CAS warned that such religious leaders found contravening the directive that suspended all religious gatherings will be held to account. Edited by E.Kibii