Officials from a county in Western are on the spot over accusations they are using their girlfriends and concubines to troll journalists who criticise their work on social media. Scribes who are fond of taking the county to task over cases of maladministration are the main targets of the attacks. Corridors has learnt that every time journalists ask for clarification on certain statements released by the county authorities, the women — known to be bedmates of some county officials — initiate online wars to frustrate the Fourth Estate. It appears a senior Traffic cop from Rift Valley has taken a cue from his predecessor who was dismissed from service on charges of abuse of office and corruption. The officer has been making illegal transfers of officers despite orders by DIG Edward Mbugua (pictured) stopping the practice. Officers have been overheard grumbling that the man refused to release officers with less than 10 years' experience in traffic management, after obtaining Sh50,000 to Sh90,000 from them. The man is said to dispatch those who don't meet his demands to hardship posts. A secret meeting between a county official at the Coast and a senior detective from one of the agencies involved in the graft war has set tongues wagging. Well, junior officers in the region are uneasy, saying that their boss’s meeting demonstrates their frustration in efforts to ensure accountability in the county. They say that as long as the man is still in the agency’s system, little will be accomplished fighting corruption in the county. Owing to the special relationship between the county and the detective, cartels now boast that junior officials from the Multi-Agency Team cannot touch them. A first-term Member of Parliament from a county in Nyanza who is known for his miserly character has thrown in the towel and now is donating foodstuffs to his constituents.  The legislator is said to have been challenged by an MCA who has been donating supplies items to the residents nearly every week. Some residents have also been putting pressure on him and some are said to be literally camping at his gate for assistance. Last week, the man distributed a kilo of cooking oil, hand sanitiser and 2kg packs of beans to each of 100 households in the constituency.