Kirinyaga Governor Ann Waiguru has asked President Uhuru Kenyatta and the Jubilee to extend its purge of party 'rebels' rebels to the National Assembly and County Assemblies for the effective running of House business. Commenting on disciplinary action that has been made against former Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen, and ex-Chief whip Senate Susan Kihika, Waiguru said she strongly support the action on them. She also expressed support for the disciplinary action against five Jubilee nominated senators who snubbed Uhuru’s State House meeting as well as the process of removing deputy Senate Speaker Kithure Kindiki. Waiguru spoke when she donated relief food from the National Government to the vulnerable at Kithiriti Primary School on Monday. “If we don’t do that we will not be able to pass bills in Parliament and county assemblies,” said Waiguru She said disciplining of the leaders whom she described as rebels will enable the President to fulfil his Big Four development agenda and deal with the Coronavirus crisis. Waiguru said it’s not possible to run the government with indiscipline, urging Uhuru to continue with the purge so that the party can be able to deliver on the promises to the people. Waiguru said the indiscipline in Jubilee had grown to its worst levels where members and leaders insulted the President at will arguing that this trend is not anywhere in the other political parties like ODM. “We have people who do not give respect to the resident, we have seen cases where he is frequently insulted by members of the party and you will never see this in other parties," she said. She said the disciplinary action taken against the leaders was inevitable telling those who are not satisfied with Jubilee that they have options of going to other parties. Waiguru said it’s very dangerous to have a party that doesn’t have discipline noting there is a code of conduct and a constitution which must be adhered to. The governor said she was happy that the party leader has finally taken charge and should be supported in his work to ensure that the party runs efficiently. Waiguru dispelled the notion that the party was intimidating members.