What would you do if someone slapped you? What if someone kidnapped you with guns? For Italian Silvia Romano, 25, her life’s mantra is to face anything that comes your way with positivity and heroism. Perhaps it is her great personality that helped her survive 18 months in the hands of al Shabaab, one of the deadliest terror groups in the continent. Hers is one of the few horror stories told that has a happy ending, a true life story of how hope, joy and tenacity can literally save your life. On an evening of November 20, 2018, gunmen in motorbikes flashing AK47 rifles abducted Romano at Chakama, 80km west of Malindi, a dusty but peaceful village, and an unlikely place for kidnaps. She volunteered at Africa Milele, an NGO dealing with child support projects. The gunmen fired indiscriminately, injuring five other people, including three children, prompting ground, sea and air search for the Milan native. The operation was initially so robust, the National Police Service released images of three suspects connected with the kidnapping with a bounty of Sh1 million each four days after the abduction. But after months of search, which saw three suspects arrested, officials went mute, citing operational reasons. FREE AT LAST Intelligence reports indicate the kidnappers, local militia, had successfully evaded the multiagency police operations and sold her to the al Shabaab terror brigade Jaysh al-Ayman, believed to be operating from the dense Boni forest. One and a half years later, Italy's Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte tweeted news of Romano's release from captivity. “Silvia Romano has been freed! I thank the women and men of the external intelligence services. Silvia, we are waiting for you in Italy!” Conte posted. The rescue was facilitated by External Information and Security Agency, the foreign intelligence service of Italy, and Turksom, Turkey's largest overseas military facility, which trains Somali Armed Forces. The efforts notwithstanding, Romano’s personality may have played a big part in her being rescued alive. On her Facebook account, she writes in the bio: "Piuttosto che essere normale, hai scelto di essere felice." Italian for "Rather than being normal, you have chosen to be happy.” All her photos used by social and mainstream media show her smiling. She chose optimism in every circumstance. In another post in January 2018, she writes, “Don't try to change your life, change your attitude towards life. Enough space in your mind to find new solutions. Happiness is within us. If we look in the wrong direction, we can't see it.” It is her view of life known by people who knew her in Italy that propelled her family, friends and the world to act. As intelligence teams worked around the clock for release, friends held vigils in social media, putting up pages of solidarity and projecting hope in a situation that proved hopeless as days went by. “Silvia Romano Libera (Free Silvia Romano)!” petitions flooded Facebook and Twitter, and organisations and individuals kept governments on toes in the investigations. JOYFUL LIFE Corriere della Sera, Italy's most-read newspaper, writes that the mother confided in her friends, "Silvia is someone you can't tell what to do." The paper reported the family believed in their daughter’s decisions and they had hoped for the best. Reports indicate Romano studied linguistic mediators for security and social defence with a thesis on human trafficking, a field she would literally become a case study of. She had decided to volunteer in Africa and help put a smile on needy children’s faces. She knew how to adapt to new environments, going by her pictures showing her enjoying coconuts, bending to the level of the children when taking pictures and donning local attires and ornamentals. Forty-two days before her kidnapping, she posted a photo of herself holding raw coconut locally known as ‘madafu’ and captioned it, “Don't break the joy. Don't hold her between your fingers… Remember, irony will save your life... will save you.” Well, her joyful life might have just saved her from her kidnappers, who exercised incredible patience during negotiations. Her hard spirit kept her strong and positive, forging a relationship with her lords that saw her change her religion to Islam. On August 2018, she wrote on her timeline, "You survive what you receive but you live with what you give." True to her post, the kidnappers spared her life and did not harm her, just the way she flew from Italy to give a new lease of life to the needy and orphaned children in Chakama. After her release from gunmen on a rainy Friday, Italian newspapers quoted her saying, "I was strong, and resisted." When the CAI Dassault Falcon 900EX flight touched Rome-Ciampino airport on Sunday afternoon, government officials, family and a battery of journalists awaited her. Videos showed Romano disembarking while donning Islamic dress, while accompanied by three hooded security officials. FREED TO CORONA WORLD Romano emerged to a world dealing with the coronavirus pandemic. She pulled off her face mask and flashed her smile and waved at the crowd at the airport. She walked unassisted in the pace of the security men, an indication she was physically fit. She didn’t appear as though she had been missing meals, as she maintained her body figure that she had before kidnapping. She met her family, Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte and other officials. Despite coronavirus policies recommending social distancing, Romano joyfully hugged family members and held onto them. Pictures show a tight embrace with her mother Francesca Fumagalli, who kissed her on the forehead. She waved again at the cameras as if to acknowledge to the world the love it had given her all the while. “Thanks. It is fine… Luckily I’m fine physically and mentally. Now I want to spend some time with my family… I’m happy," she said in a brief address to journalists in Italian. Conte thanked intelligence officials who had been involved in the rescue operations. "We are so glad to welcome Silvia back in such a delicate moment for the country. The State is always there, and will always be there," Conte said. News of her release and arrival in her home country lit up social media and shone a light into life in the streets and families in Italy, which had been dampened by one of the worst death tolls from Covid-19. Focus now shifts to suspects thought to be have collaborated with the kidnappers. Three people have so far been charged with the kidnapping, including Moses Luwali, Abdulla Wario and Ibrahim Omar, who was said to be a key suspect. She is expected to give testimonies in a bid to shed more light into what transpired and give investigators more leads, which may result in more arrests and fastening of prosecution of those involved. “We are free, free... Free to fly. We are free, free... Free to wrong. We are free, free...free to dream. We are free, free... To start again,” reads her post on August 2017.