Did some Jubilee MCAs in a county assembly that was recently rocked by chaos visit ODM leader Raila Odinga to resolve wrangles in the leadership of the party in the house? Corridors understand that the ward reps visited Raila at his Capitol Hill office seeking his intervention to end the wrangles that have rocked the Jubilee wing of the county assembly. It was not clear why the MCAs resorted to approaching Raila but those in the know say the former Prime Minister has been calling the shots and even issuing instructions to the speaker of the assembly, which is dominated by Jubilee members. ****** A governor of one of the coastal counties is on the warpath. His confidants were overheard bragging that none of the ranches in his county will be granted an extension of tenure, including one associated with a prominent family. To flex his muscles and fire the first shot, the governor recently convened a quick kangaroo meeting to snatch a ranch from a family of a renowned retired armed forces officer and quickly—though questionably—reverted it to the county. Our little bird tells Corridors that the governor and his co-conspirators are eyeing the ranches for themselves. The more sober elements in that county are apprehensive that the governor may be biting more than he can chew. ******* Just where did a vocal MP who is known for combative politics go to soon after the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country? That is the questions some Jubilee legislators were heard asking themselves in Parliament on Wednesday. The lawmaker has not been seen in public neither has he attended sessions since Parliament resumed. The MP has never attended any of the parliamentary committee zoom meetings, raising concerns on his whereabouts. Just before coronavirus, the legislator, who is eyeing a governor seat in 2022, was all over churches and political podiums campaigning for his candidature and drumming up support for a prominent figure for president. ******* A ward rep from a county in Nyanza has shocked local politicians, including MPs and a governor, with his massive donations. The MCA has been donating food and non-food items to his constituents nearly every week since the Covid-19 pandemic hit the county. His handlers say he spends about Sh2 million every week on the items. He has suddenly become a darling of the residents who are benefiting from his generosity. Some curious residents are however asking the source of the MCA’s donations. Some politicians are said to be worried that the second-term ward rep could be plotting to unseat them in 2022.