A shake-up looms at three state agencies mandated to steer development and tourism in the country. There are plans to merge Tourism Finance Corporation, Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation and IDB Capital Limited into Kenya Development Bank. The proposed bank, according to the draft Kenya Development Bank Bill, 2020, is envisioned to breathe life into the falling manufacturing pillar of the President’s development legacy plan. President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration has proposed a Sh100 billion capital for the bank to be divided into 20 billion shares of Sh5 each. National Treasury CS Ukur Yatani said the bank will finance development projects to catalyse the achievement of Big Four. Its mandate would be to facilitate industrial and economic development by initiating or aiding the expansion of industrial, commercial or other enterprises. Yatani said the merger, which has been approved by the Cabinet, was identified among critical reforms to support manufacturing. “It may be critical post-Covid-19 to provide assistance to industries,” the CS said in a statement seen by the Star on Thursday. The President’s target for the sector - before his exit in 2022 - is hinged on growth of textile, leather, fish and agro-processing industries. Also targeted are dealers in construction materials, oil, mining, gas, iron and steel as well as ICT. Some Sh18.2 billion has been set aside for bolstering the manufacturing agenda in the 2020-21 budget. Universal health coverage, food security and affordable housing, which are part of President Kenyatta’s development legacy plan, are not doing well either. Once the Bill is passed, Yatani will be at liberty to appoint an acting director general (for one year). This will affect the respective heads of the merging institutions. Board members’ terms are set to end once the Bill is passed and becomes law. Employees of the three agencies will hold positions in acting capacity. “Any person who was an officer or employee of the former corporations shall continue to hold or act in that office as if appointed to that position under this Act,” the proposal reads. All benefits accruing to the affected employees will continue under the new law. Court cases will be transferred to the new entity. Facilities will be extended to medium and large-scale industries, infrastructure projects and commercial undertakings in various sectors. The bank, the Bill states, will also provide venture capital, seed capital and risk capital for the development of industries. It is expected to help finance or assist in the establishment of companies for execution of undertakings, works, projects or enterprises whether public or private. Kenya Development Bank will, however, not be the sole source of finance in respect of any undertaking or enterprise. Assistance to industries will be by way of guarantees, loans or investment and not by way of grant or subsidy. The bank, according to Yatani’s proposal, may also require early repayment of its loans, guarantees or investments to ensure it remains liquid. A management board with a chairman, appointed by the President for a three-year term, shall be tasked to run the bank. Other proposed members are PSs for Treasury, Industrialisation, Tourism, Attorney General, and four Treasury CS appointees. Skills in industry, socio-economic development, business, commerce, finance, economics, engineering, accountancy, law or administration will be sought. The team will have power to approve credit for industries, advance, deposit, and lend money as well as securities with industries as they deem fit. The board will also have power to guarantee industries “or become liable by way of surety or indemnity for the payment of money or performance of any contract.” The bank will be run on a day-to-day basis by a director-general appointed by the board in consultation with the Cabinet Secretary. Yatani proposes that a secretary to the bank be appointed by the board for arranging business of board meetings. On the share capital, the government may subscribe for the 20 billion shares or any other amount as the CS may determine. The Bill seeks to give the Treasury powers to make advances or grants to the bank to enable it fulfill its obligations. - mwaniki fm