Activists have now threatened to sue Inspector General of Police and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations for failing to probe the ‘Kiamaiko 3’ case since their mysterious disappearance on April 24. They have accused the police of laxity, cover-up, and showing no interest in investigating the matter since there is still no evidence produced by the authorities yet. Michael Njau, a human rights defender, a member of Kiamaiko Social Justice Centre based in Nairobi, and an active community leader, his cousin Adan Mohammed and Samuel Mungai, the driver went missing en route to Nairobi. Their next step they would make, they say, is to go to court to demand that the police present the missing individuals dead or alive. “Senior officers have not demanded serious investigations. This issue falls squarely in the office of the IG and DCI who should demand more from their officers. Failure to arrest any suspect is a clear indication of their disinterest in this matter,” Executive director for Haki Hussein Khalid said. Rights activists who have been active and vocal on this matter told the Star that they are scared and terrified of their lives and feel those behind the disappearance if not caught, they might turn to them to silence them and bury the case. They say their disappearance affirms the existence of killer criminal gangs that the National Police Service has completely failed to investigate and deter its crimes. “Despite vehement denials from police, undercover security agents have continuously been accused of responsibility for enforced disappearances and extrajudicial killings of persons in Kenya,” a statement from the Kilifi Social Justice Centre and Haki Africa read. It is alleged that Njau and his cousin were in for an urgent business deal. Mungai hired a Toyota Ractis, registered KCX 843M from his friend identified as Alex, and dropped to Nairobi that day in the afternoon. According to police, their phones were later switched off around Ruaraka. The vehicle slowed down from 92 kilometres per hour and stopped for five minutes from 2.27 pm to 2.33 pm along the Thika Superhighway. It made a stop somewhere around Clayworks, Thika road. It did not stop again but rather travelled between 80 and 100 km/h before slowing down and parking opposite Life Restoration church in Githurai 45. According to witnesses, the vehicle was parked by one person who does not match the description of the missing three. Thika road is well covered with CCTV cameras and up to now, the police have not released a report about the analysis of the camera and phone calls A team of human rights defenders managed to search for them in 36 police stations across Nairobi, Machakos, Kajiado, and Kisumu counties. They also extended their search in 13 hospitals and morgues in four counties; Nairobi, Machakos, Kajiado and Kiambu. They held a vigil on May 5 to continue adding pressure and be in solidarity with the families of the three.