The High Court has ordered a retrial of five death row inmates who robbed from their neighbour in Meru eight years ago. The five were convicted for robbery with violence and each sentenced to death. John Mutiga, Joseph Ramare, George Mbijiwe, Benard Mutunga and John Kubania separately appealed their conviction and sentence, arguing that the trial magistrate did not give them a fair hearing. The court consolidated their appeal into one. It had been alleged that on October 26, 2012, at Mumui location of Meru county’s Tigania West, they robbed Daniel Njuguna of his shirt, pair of trousers, a cap, leather shoes and a Nokia mobile phone - all valued at Sh13,000. They also allegedly took Sh10,000 in cash and used actual violence on Njuguna. In his judgment, judge David Majanja allowed their appeal and set aside their conviction and sentence. The court noted that the trial magistrate did not comply with the mandatory provision of the law to inform the accused of their right to recall witnesses. “It is only after the succeeding magistrate has explained to the accused their rights that he can properly decide whether or not to recall the witnesses in light of the circumstances. This appeal must succeed on this ground,” he added. Justice Majanja held that the evidence against the five inmates was overwhelming and the offence for which they are charged with is serious. They will not be set free but rather have a fresh trial conducted by a different magistrate. “The complainants and appellants are neighbours and the witnesses are either relatives or neighbours, hence it would not be difficult to get them to testify. Moreover, the failure to comply with the code was purely a mistake of the trial court that has now been remedied by this appeal,” the court ruled. “The appellants shall remain in custody pending the hearing of the testimony of the complainants which shall be heard within six months from the date this judgment and the trial shall be completed within 18 months from the date of this judgment.” The five had applied for a fresh trial and recall witnesses when a new magistrate took up their case and the appeal was denied. The trial court at the time ruled that the accused had been placed on their defence and it was not in the interest of justice to start the case afresh. Edited by R.Wamochie