ODM supremo Raila Odinga seems to be getting the upper hand in his political one-upmanship game with Deputy President William Ruto. Raila has the potential to gain a foothold in Uhuru Kenyatta's Mt Kenya turf. It is a constituency in which Ruto has invested heavily—politically and financially. Ruto's saving grace is that Rift Valley – the bedrock of his support – is impregnable. In addition, the political onslaught and curfew during Ramadhan have swayed Muslims towards Ruto. The removal of senators Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet), Susan Kihika (Nakuru) and the looming sacking of Kithure Kindiki (Tharaka Nithi) as Senate Deputy Speaker have severed the umbilical cord that joined Uhuru with the DP's people. Today Ruto is down on his knees praying at Karen Church, while Raila is celebrating in Naivasha saying the BBI game is on halftime. When the game resumes, Raila is going to walk to Bondo and leave Uhuru exposed, without an army. Raila, like all politicians, has never had a permanent friend. Will it then be possible to impeach the President if Tangatanga and Raila's troops pull out? If Omari files a petition for impeachment supported by Raila, Ruto and Musalia Mudavadi, how many Jubilee lieutenants will remain loyal to Uhuru Kenyatta? Right now it seems like Raila's guns are trained on Ruto, but I think he's actually targeting Uhuru. The earlier Uhuru realises this the better. If he waits too long there will be nobody to protect him. In my estimation, this is a battle that has been taken to Uhuru's bedroom, he has lost and it is only a matter of time before the final whistle is blown. This episode will leave Ruto stronger and more connected to the masses because all the Jubilee blunders will be heaped on Uhuru. Raila is likely to be appointed to the government. He will be a co-owner of the massive failures linked to Covid-19, floods and unemployment and Ruto will come out clean because he will not be part of that government. This will make him more appealing to the masses. He will have the last laugh. The political analyst spoke to the Star