Governor Jackson Mandago has run into trouble after MCAs hurriedly approved a proposal by his administration to buy the National Bank building in Eldoret for Sh570 million. The building is to be used for extra office space. The Uasin Gishu assembly had last year shot down the deal after questions were raised over the valuation of the dilapidated building. They also cited lack of necessary approvals. However, a report of the same deal was yesterday surprisingly brought back to the assembly, where 32 MCAs supported it. Only eight ward reps rejected the purchase. MPs in the county, led by Oscar Sudi of Kapseret, have opposed the deal questioning the cost. Some residents have also threatened to go to court to stop the purchase. Sudi says the deal is suspect and a waste of public money. This is the first time Mandago has publicly differed with Sudi. Residents opposed to the deal have asked the EACC and the DCI to investigate and establish if there is value for money in the purchase. In harsh social media post, MP Sudi told Mandago to stop the purchase warning the county boss that, “Uasin Gishu county does not have fools”. Sudi says the county has its own land to build its own facilities at a cheaper cost. “Governor Mandago do you know what Sh100 million can build? Unless you have never built anything,” the MP says. MCAs opposed to the deal said the county has many stalled projects which should be completed to benefit residents. “We don’t need more offices in town because county staff are supposed to be deployed in the wards to serve residents," says Huruma MCA Peter Chomba, who is among the MCAs opposed to the deal. The building in question is located adjacent to the current county headquarters along Uganda Road in Eldoret town and Mandago had proposed to buy it off arguing that the county needed more office space. However, a spot check at the current county offices indicates that many offices are not in use and have been abandoned. The eight MCAs who opposed the purchase deal include Chomba, Francis Muya (Langas), Gilbert Tenai (Cheptiret), Phillip Melly (Mois Bridge), Edwin Maraswo (Simat), Samwel Choge (Tapsagoi) and Mary Goretti (nominated). Edited by A.N 