A woman in Baringo county on Wednesday gave birth in the bush after she and other villagers fled their homes because of banditry attacks. Elima Kiptoon, 25, is among hundreds of Tugen residents who fled their homes last week after bandits attacked Ng’aratuko village in Baringo North subcounty. Tension is still high in the area as armed bandits are still shooting in the air to scare away residents. “I was collecting wild vegetables in the bush when I suddenly developed labour pains. I fell unconscious and that is all I can recall,” Kiptoon said. Loruk assistant chief Samuel Kamuren said the banditry attack victims are living in temporary structures in the bush in Chepkowel. County Public Health chief officer Dr Winnie Bore said insecurity and Covid-19 have locked out many residents, including expectant mothers, from accessing health facilities. “Despite the fears, I'm appealing to our people to make good use of our hospitals to avoid loss of life,” Bore said. Witness Emmy Tonje said she found Kiptoon lying on the ground at noon. “She was lying helplessly on the bare ground with the newborn. The umbilical cord was not cut,” Tonje said. She said she went to call for help from the neighbourhood. Some women hurried to the scene and cut the umbilical cord. Tonje said she further sought help from a family camping in the area, and they gave the new mother porridge. The new mother was still weak and could not walk back to the IDP camp in Chepkowel, which is 15km away. “I led her to a deserted hut and I offered to keep her company until she was strong enough to walk back to the camp,” she said. Resident Tarkok Kokwon said though the mother and child survived the dangerous delivery, they still needed medical attention. “The baby was exposed to cold and this could lead to health complications,” Kokwon said. She said the mother of three is poor and does not have the cash to feed her two boys plus her one-day-old baby girl. "She cannot afford transportation and other expenses at Marigat Subcounty Hospital," Kokwon said. Kiptoon said she could not give the baby a name until her husband’s family approve. But the journalists from the locality named the baby ‘Nehema Jeptoo’ which was upheld and agreed upon by residents. Edited by A.N