Asset recovery is an important cog in the fight against corruption. One of the issues that Transparency International –Kenya has repeatedly stated is that we need to see the results of anti-graft efforts. There are two ways we can strongly demonstrate impact in the fight. One is by ensuring that people found guilty are convicted and get prison terms which are commensurate with the amounts of money they have stolen. The second measure of true success in the fight against corruption is that resources that have been stolen are recovered. Definitely, investing in asset recovery efforts is key. We are at the point where we desperately need all resources recovered and repatriated into our ailing economy. Even before the Covid-19 pandemic, the country was swaddled in runaway public debt. The economy is currently looking grim and is forecast to register stunted growth hence we need all stolen resources recovered so that we have enough resources to sustain the country. Therefore, asset recovery is definitely an important tool in the fight against corruption. Looking at the agencies involved, I know there have been efforts to recover assets through enhanced coordination and cooperation with national and international agencies. We need to enhance the measures that have yielded the results we have seen so far. Let the concerned agencies conclude further cooperation agreements; intensify investigations and other criminal procedures in cases where money or resources are suspected to have been stolen. Let us apply a strategy to recover resources from people with unexplained wealth within reasonable timelines. Let us also continue applying the measures that have worked so far with a view to increasing the amounts we are recovering. The Asset Recovery Agency had steered the development of regulations guiding the establishment and management of the Asset Recovery Fund. The Cabinet Secretary Treasury should gazette these regulations - to operationalize them. This will go a long way in ensuring there is transparency and accountability in the handling of the funds. This will help us guard against the risk of re-corrupting of funds that have been recovered. The regulations will also support record keeping and information sharing on assets recovered. This is important because even as we recover resources that have been lost, we still need transparency on the uses they have been put to, to avoid reinvesting them in the cycle of corruption. The Transparency International Executive Director spoke to the Star