Collective management organisations yesterday said the state should involve them when distributing the Sh100 million to artistes since they have their data. Kamp, Prisk and MCSK warned of accountability issues after Sports, Culture and Heritage CS Amina Mohamed excluded them in her ministry's plan to disburse the funds. "If the government uses its ways to distribute the money without the data, the money might not reach every musician in Kenya," Kamp chairman Anthony Karani told the press at Kamp's offices in Kilimani. In the past, artistes including Frasha and Willy Paul have raised the same concerns of accountability about the CMOs. Amina on Monday launched the “Work for Pay” Sh100 million stimulus package for artistes. The programme requires artistes from different sectors to produce works that would entertain and educate Kenyans on the safety and precautions to curb the spread of the coronavirus. Amina said government agencies under the ministry will supervise and coordinate the programme's implementation, leaving out the CMOs. Prisk chairman Ephantus Kamau said they have the data on all Kenyan creatives, and thus leaving them out will not be a good idea. "We (CMOs) humbly request the CS  to consider CMOs to be part of the institutions to implement the President’s good intended gesture," he said. He thanked President Uhuru Kenyatta for this swift action and for the immense support he has given the creatives during and before this corona period. "We consider this gesture an act of patriotism and an opportunity to support the often-neglected creative industry," he said. Karani said all they are after is accountability. "It is easier to also regulate the CMOs and that will protect the money from being misused. Accountability is what we want," he said. MCSK chairman Lazarus Muli said the Collective Management Organisations (CMOs) have been patiently waiting for further directions regarding how and when they will receive the funds. "Our combined membership is about 20,000," he said, adding that they include composers, authors, publishers, performers (musicians and actors) and producers of sound recordings and dramatic works. "Considering our mandate and membership, the CMOs are integral and have a fundamental role in facilitating the President’s programme herein, in liaison with the ministry." Edited by T Jalio