Six people were killed and 13 others injured after fresh clashes erupted in Narok county at the weekend. More than 15 houses were torched in Olooruasi and Olpusimoru areas in Narok South and Narok North subcounties, respectively. Narok county commissioner Samuel Kimiti said they have deployed a contingent of security officers to quell the violence. “It is a totally unacceptable loss of lives and properties. We formed peace committees for both communities that will help preach peace messages among their people,” Kimiti said. Kimiti said that two people have been arrested in connection with the clashes. The administrator spoke to the press after a meeting with Narok Governor Samuel Tunai, Narok South MP Korei ole Lemein and MCAs of the affected areas. The latest clashes have been attributed to an incident where a young Kipsigis man allegedly stole his father’s cow and sold it to a Maasai. When his father went to look for his cow, he found it with the Maasai man and accused him of theft. This led to the clash between the two communities. Kimiti said some political leaders visited the affected areas and violence followed. “We will not accept the leaders whose mission is to incite their community against the other to come to these areas," Kimiti said. The administrator called upon people holding illegal guns to surrender them to the government. Tunai urged the two communities fighting to stop the violence and embrace peace. “It is sad that the two communities have been living together for a long time and now they have turned against each other. There are better ways of solving conflicts than revenging against each other,” Tunai said. The administrator’s comments were supported by two MPs who have accused some politicians of fuelling clashes. Lemein and Narok North MP Moitalel ole Kenta said on Sunday that some politicians who visit the area often should be held responsible for the violence. “This is Narok South and we are peace-loving people and those coming here with a different agenda instead of uniting people should think twice before engaging in their missions,” Lemein said. The legislator urged the two communities to find better ways of resolving disputes instead of fighting. Kenta said, “We are aware that these people were incited by certain politicians to cause violence with the hope that they will return to their former homes in a government forest [Mau Forest].” He urged the government to stop such politicians from visiting the area until calm is restored.  (edited by o. owino)