Health CS Mutahi Kagwe resorted to quoting a Bible verse in a bid to sober Kenyans to the impact of flouting government directives on the war on the coronavirus pandemic. Kagwe read from Proverbs 10:17. "Whoever heeds discipline shows the way to life, but whoever ignores correction leads others astray." Speaking during his daily briefing on Tuesday, Kagwe said Kenyans are inviting death by not following directives. A total of 45 people have tested positive of coronavirus in the last 24 hours, the highest since the first cases was recorded. This has shot the cases to 535. This marks the highest number of patients since the first case was recorded on March 13. "...the figures are a clear demonstration that things are not getting better. Today's figures shows that things are far from normal and are challenging those who are indisciplined and leading others astray, which is becoming a common phenomenon," Kagwe said. He appealed to those who are not observing the directives to adhere to the measures to stop the spread of infections. "There is a chance that we can still stop this disease. Please adhere to the rules. Those who continue exposing Kenyans will bare the brunt of the law," he said. "We will take action. You will face the law. Our destiny as a people is bound in collective and individual responsibility." Kagwe said he received messages of anger from citizens who have seen people drinking in bars and sitting together as if there is no pandemic. "This is not good for you and not good for the person you are eating with. It is not comfortable for leaders. I appeal to our political class to focus on educating our people," he said. "We can do better. By we, I mean you and I… I share the feelings that people have." In March,Kagwe said Kenyans  were indisciplined and difficult people. "Kenyans are very indiscipline and it will cost us. We want responsibility among citizens, Keep your kids home..you people of the media need to tell them," he said. Kagwe said Kenyans have been warned against contracting the disease but they feign ignorance. "It is a grievous mistake. For us to give your child then you go exposing him or her. Then you call us and say serikali saidia.. this is the time you need to saidia yourself not the government..," he said.