Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi's flagship projects have suffered financial setbacks in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis. The money meant for Meru Youth Service and the School Milk Programme will now be used in the fight against Covid-19. This followed last week's directive by Kiraitu that allowed MCAs to reassign the funds. The two programmes are his brainchildren. Also affected is the Ward Development Fund. In the Sh10.4 billion budget estimates approved by the county assembly, the funds have been reduced from Sh20 million to Sh10 million per ward. Budget committee chairperson Julius Mbijiwe said the coronavirus crisis could take a heavy toll on revenue collection. Similar sentiments were shared by Abogeta West MCA Dennis Kiogora, who said the 2020-21 estimates will be affected by a strain on revenue. In view of the situation, Majority leader Victor Karithi warned residents to brace themselves for tough times ahead and not be carried away by the estimates. “We have, for instance, approved the slashing of ward fund from Sh20 million to Sh10 million per ward. Our hope is that this Sh10 million will not further get affected by the anticipated reduction in Exchequer allocations to the county government in the coming year, as well as the anticipated drop in own-source revenue collection as a result of many businesses closing down or operating at their lowest capacity," he said. "Let our people be ready for anything. Let them be ready for reality, passing fiscal paper does not mean there is sufficient money for the projects." Kiraitu’s administration has a set target of Sh600 million in local revenue, but Mbijiwe doubted the figures will be realised citing the economic turmoil brought about by the virus. In the last financial year, the county collected Sh581.5 million. Mbijiwe urged the county government to focus on putting in place measures that will cushion the economy and businesses from collapse. He took issue with the county treasury's failure to provide adequate information on Sh974 million allocation to eight departments for pending bills. The MCA said the pending bills are a threat to the county economy, especially owing to the worsening economic situation caused by the coronavirus.