Hyenas have invaded a Busia village whose residents were recently displaced by floods and killed sheep and goats. Residents said Sunday that the animals were spotted in Kiriko village in Malaba,  Teso North subcounty last week. They want the Kenya Wildlife Service to track down the animals and kill them before they cause more losses to livestock farmers in the area. Kiriko assistant chief Francis Ekakoro told the Star that four farmers were counting losses after their sheep and goats were mauled by the hyenas. The hyenas, he said, are roaming the village in a group of six. “So far they have attacked four homes and killed six sheep and two goats. On Saturday, we spent the whole night chasing them. We still do not know where they live during the day,” the administrator said. Parts of Kiriko village are remote and bushy and can act as hiding grounds for the animals. Ekakoro said residents are living in fear because the animals can attack children. Silas Oshieyo, a resident, said KWS should act fast to track the hyenas and ferry them to the nearest national park or game reserve. Oshieyo lost one sheep to the hyenas on Friday night. Women and children in the area cannot freely move for fear of being attacked, he said. “Our children are not safe because if hyenas go hungry, they can start attacking people,” he said. Kiriko, where the hyenas have established a home, is among villages recently swept by floods caused by the ongoing heavy rains. About 30 houses were destroyed by floods. River Malakisi passes through the village which borders Malaba town on the eastern part of Malaba South ward. It is not yet clear where the hyenas came from since according to locals, the last time they were spotted in the area was about 30 years ago. Some locals suspect the hyenas may have crossed the border into Kenya from Uganda through the thickly-forested Osukuru Hills in Tororo South District. Others say they may have come from Mt Elgon National Park, approximately 40 kilometres away. Area MCA David Kokonya said he will liaise with the KWS office in Kakamega so that the hyenas are tracked. (edited by o. owino)