 The government, in partnership with humanitarian agencies, has enhanced surveillance in refugee camps in the war on the coronavirus. Organisations the government has partnered with include the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), World Vision, the Red Cross and Amref. Capacity building for health workers who serve the refugee population is also ongoing. The ministry has further enhanced advocacy, community and social mobilisation to ensure the refugees in the camps are not left behind in the fight against Covid-19. The combination of crowded living conditions, under-resourced and understaffed healthcare facilities coupled with high malnutrition in these camps puts refugees at risk of diseases, including Covid-19. Kenya has played host to refugees for many decades, especially from neighbouring Somalia, Ethiopia, South Sudan and the DRC. The country currently hosts at least 400,000 refugees. Dadaab for instance, hosts 270,000 refugees but has only one dedicated health facility with 110 beds. Health Chief Administrative Secretary Mercy Mwangangi said on Monday, “We are working collaboratively with different agencies, the ministry and departments who work and ensure that refugee camps are well-manned.” “We have seen the main challenges in some camps and this is being addressed in collaboration with our UN partners to ensure that conditions there are safe and containment measures are met,” she said. The ministry is expected to give a detailed report on the same in the coming days. “Most of the refugee camps are located along border areas and remember our borders are porous,” Health Director General Patrick Amoth said. The concern is that the number of infections in Somalia is increasing, posing a threat to communities on the border and refugees in camps. “Due to the ease of movement between the Kenyan side and the Somalia side, we decided to make a restriction in movement in Mandera county,” Amoth said. Last week, the Interior ministry restricted movement in and out of Kakuma and Dadaab refugee camps as a measure to contain the spread of the virus. So far, the UNHCR has set up a Covid-19 task force that is working in collaboration with both the national and county governments. The main focus is to protect refugees in the camps from contracting the virus. Further, the government has started testing in Wajir county to cover the Northeastern part so that samples don’t have to be flown to Nairobi. Earlier, various agencies urged the government to ensure that measures to control and respond to the spread of the coronavirus are equitable, protect human rights and respond to different needs and risks faced by individuals. They said it was important to assess, monitor and respond to the needs of everyone in all settings, including displacement camps, host communities and in quarantine facilities. For instance, schools in the camps have been closed like anywhere else in the country, but provisions for remote learning remain a dream.  Edited by A.N