 Kiambu county and local divers have retrieved the bodies of four men who drowned in the River Athi after a week-long search. The divers also retrieved two unidentified bodies of a female and a male. Thika East subcounty police commander Michael Mwaura said the search came to an end on Monday after all the four bodies were successfully retrieved and taken to General Kago Funeral Home in Thika town. The bodies had been washed downstream to Thambiti and Kavaa villages in Machakos county, which are seven and 20 kilometres, respectively, from where the accident occurred. The four drowned last week on Tuesday after their boat capsized as they were crossing River Athi which has burst its banks in Ngoliba, Thika East. They were in the company of two others who managed to swim to safety. Thika East security committee chairman Thomas Sankei said the four men were crossing the river to tie a rope on the other side to stabilise their boat. “They ferry people across the river with their boat and on the fateful day, the river had burst its banks following the heavy rain that is pounding regions upstream. The waves overwhelmed their boat upon reaching the middle of the river,” Sankei said. Efforts to retrieve the bodies dragged on for a week due to raging waters. Area MCA Joachim Mwangi said burial preparations have commenced and the first body will be interred on Wednesday. “The search mission was marred with a myriad of challenges but the brave divers managed to retrieve the bodies. The four have been identified by their relatives,” Mwangi said. The other two unidentified bodies were taken to City Mortuary in Nairobi. The ward rep cautioned residents against operating along the swollen river to avoid loss of more lives. While replying to the residents’ calls to have a bridge constructed in the area, the MCA said he will petition the Kiambu government to construct a bridge. “The county government has enough resources to construct a bridge which is vital in protecting the lives of our people. I will push for the bridge construction to save residents the agony of risking their lives crossing the river even when it’s swollen,” Mwangi said.  Edited by A.N