Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro has accused ODM leader Raila Odinga of plotting to destroy the Jubilee Party. He said Raila is using Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju to wreck the party for his personal political interests. Nyoro said the wrangles in the party fomented after the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila that saw the latter "become part of the government". Ndindi said the handshake, which has been hailed for uniting Kenyans, was achieved at the expense of the ruling party, which has since been experiencing turbulence. He claimed Tuju plans to run for governor, hence working with Raila for his political self-preservation. “Most of the things Tuju has been doing seem to be geared towards obliterating the party and we know why. We no longer recognise him as the secretary general,” he said. He said after the handshake, Raila disrupted the operations of the government and the party and ignited conflicts. “He is like the proverbial camel that seeks shelter when it is raining and then tries to take over the home. He is a destroyer based on his history. He leaves a trail of destruction everywhere he goes,” the first-term MP said. He said the issues facing the ruling party have affected the Jubilee administration’s delivery record compared to Uhuru's first term in office. The lawmaker said a section of the party had registered a new party called The National Unity Party (TNU) and plan to decamp to the outfit after Jubilee is torn apart. He, however, noted that MPs allied to the DP William Ruto will stay put through the turbulent times. “If they want to leave, they can leave us in Jubilee because our supporters are still in the party. They can persecute us as much as they want but in the end, it is the voters who will determine who will get the votes,” Nyoro said. “We keep quiet because of courtesy, not cowardice, but will not allow them to use the Jubilee Party to flex their muscles." He spoke while inspecting security projects implemented by the NG-CDF office, including nine chiefs’ offices that were build from scratch and six that were renovated. The MP said residents had demanded more and improved chiefs' offices to improve security. This followed a surge in crime. At Kiawambeu shopping centre, for instance, streetlights that were installed last year have all been vandalised, leaving residents in darkness as criminals have a field day. “If the office was there, the streetlights would still be intact because a chief’s office comes with a few security officers,” Nyoro said, adding that Mugeka Administration Police camp was also renovated. He pointed out that the NG-CDF office has been able to optimally use funds by relying on local labour to minimise the cost of projects. "We have trained local youths on tiles installation and every other construction practice that requires extra expertise,” he said.