 Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong'o on Thursday launched a Sh37 million market that will accommodate more than 700 traders. The Chichwa market is a component of the Sh241 million Non-Motorised Transport (NMT) project. It is funded by the World Bank through the State Department of Urban Development under the Kenya Urban Support Programme. Nyong’o said the market has stalls to accommodate 518 traders and an open-air section for 240 traders who were affected by the re-organisation of the road. A total of 1,190 traders were affected. The remaining traders will be accommodated at the 10,000 capacity Uhuru Business Park, currently under construction. Chichwa is complete with essential benefits including water reticulation, electricity, spacious stalls, security services, controlled trading areas and an environment for enhanced hours of trading. It also has three ultra-modern ablution blocks. “With this kind of development, we are not only offering our traders dignified environments to operate from but also sustainably structuring our revenue streams,” Nyong’o said. The initiative, he said, targets to give security to small traders and exposing them to financial access offered by the various financial institutions and the government. Nyong’o reassured residents of his commitment to position Kisumu as the de facto business capital of the Lake Region Economic Bloc. “We shall pull no stops to provide the commercial infrastructure that will give an edge to our small and medium enterprises,” he said. The governor said they are working with partners - both bilateral and the government - to provide infrastructure to all traders. “Let us exercise our self-reliance by paying for the stalls in time. That is the only way we shall be able to sustainably maintain these facilities and grow the numbers,” Nyong'o said. City manager Doris Ombara said Chichwa market stalls were constructed as a relocation action plan for the affected traders within the NMT facility corridor. “It is aimed at easing the congestion of street vendors in the road reserves of most of the Central Business Roads within Kisumu City,” she said. For the fair allocation of traders, the city management used biometric data collection of traders on the streets. "This is to help only genuine traders get space for business," Ombara said. Ombara said the NMT project offers basic mobility, affordable transport, access to public transport and health benefits. It also targets to improve the convenience, comfort, and safety of those walking and cycling thereby reducing the demand for travel by personal motor vehicles. Other benefits of the project include alleviation of critical traffic challenges facing many cities and zero-emission modes. It also encourages walking and cycling that are critical efforts in reducing the harmful local pollution and greenhouse gas emissions. The facility, Ombara said, is to reduce high pedestrian traffic, a large number of boda boda operators and motorbikes and the presence of vendors in the city. The NMT covers Ang’awa Street, Oginga Odinga Street and Jomo Kenyatta Avenue. Ombara said the construction is 70 per cent complete. The works include drainage works, utilities and service ducts, footpaths and cycle tracks, tabletop pedestrian crossings, street furniture, solar-powered street lights, vending kiosks, two public toilets and landscaping and greenery. Edited by R.Wamochie