Curfews have been ordered in cities across the US to try to stem unrest sparked by the death of a black man in police custody. But they have been defied in many areas, with shops looted, cars burned and buildings attacked. Riot police have used tear gas and rubber bullets. President Donald Trump urged "healing" over the death of George Floyd but said he could not allow mobs to dominate. A white ex-policeman is charged with murdering Mr Floyd, 46, in Minneapolis. Derek Chauvin, 44, is due to appear in court on Monday. In video footage, Mr Chauvin can be seen kneeling on Mr Floyd's neck for several minutes on Monday. Mr Floyd repeatedly says that he is unable to breathe. Three other officers present at the time have also since been sacked. The Floyd case has reignited US anger over police killings of black Americans. It follows the high-profile cases of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Eric Garner in New York and others that have driven the Black Lives Matter movement. But for many it also reflects years of frustration over socioeconomic inequality and segregation, not least in Minneapolis itself. Huge demonstrations have taken place in at least 30 cities across the US. They were largely peaceful on Saturday, but violence flared later in the day. One of the cities worst affected by unrest is Los Angeles. California Governor Gavin Newsom declared a state of emergency in the city and activated the National Guard - the reserve military force that can be called on to intervene in domestic emergencies. The entire city is under a 20:00 to 05:30 curfew. Numerous shops have been looted, including on the famous retail avenues, Melrose and Fairfax, while overhead footage showed fires burning. Earlier police fired rubber bullets and hit protesters with batons. Hundreds of arrests have been made. Mayor Eric Garcetti said this was "the heaviest moment I've experienced" since the riots in 1992 that were sparked by the acquittal of police over the beating of Rodney King. In New York, some 20 police cars were burned and dozens of arrests made. Video also showed a police car driving into a crowd of protesters. Mayor Bill de Blasio said the situation was not started by the officers, but Congress Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez said his comments were unacceptable and he should not be making excuses for the officers. Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot imposed a 21:00 to 06:00 curfew until further notice, saying she was "disgusted" by the violence. "I've seen protesters hurl projectiles at our police department... bottles of water, urine and Lord knows what else," she said. Although in most places curfews were observed by the majority, also in most places there was evidence of defiance. In Atlanta, protesters remained on the streets after the curfew began, damaging property and vehicles. Dozens of arrests were made