A petition by Thika Town MP calling for the renewal of a land lease for Del Monte Ltd to save jobs has been opposed. MP Patrick Wainaina Wainaina, in a statement issued in Parliament last week, said at least 6,500 jobs at the multi-national fruit grower and processor are at stake and urged the government to renew a 99-year land lease that expires in 2022. However, Kandara Residents Association and representatives of residents of Thika slums, including Gachagi, Matharau, Kiandutu and Kiang'ombe, have questioned the MP's motive, terming it "questionable and self-serving." Led by their spokesman Phillip Kamau, the lobby claimed a recent survey had established that the company was occupying more than 7,000 acres of idle land that belongs to the government and insisted the portion be surrendered and allocated to residents. “Workers losing jobs is insignificant to us as many do not come from the locality," Kamau said at a press conference in Thika town, adding that proceeds from the firm only benefits people in America and Europe. His sentiments were backed by Gatuanyaga residents representative Joseph Gachengeci, who said the firm employs less than 50 people from the area, while the majority of the workers are from other regions. "If the MP has the interests of Thika people at heart, he should call for a public participation forum to discuss the matter. We were surprised to see him in Parliament asking the President to intervene, yet he had not consulted us as his constituents,” Gachengeci said. The lobby group criticised the leadership of Murang’a and Kiambu counties, claiming there was an attempt to snatch more than 4,000 acres from “genuine beneficiaries who have fought for its surrender by Del Monte". On Thursday last week, Wainaina tabled a statement in Parliament saying 6,500 direct jobs would be at stake and 28,000 indirectly if the company's land lease is not renewed. He opposed the idea that the land should be surrendered to Murang'a and Kiambu governments. The parcels are in the two counties. The legislator also said Kenya stands to lose Sh10 billion in forex income, including Sh7.5 billion on suppliers' "backward linkage". He petitioned President Uhuru Kenyatta to save the company from imminent closure. “This is zero hour for Del Monte. The national government must rise above the county governments and ignore their short-term greed and illogical demands. I don't know what magic these counties will perform on this land which they haven't done on land already bestowed on them,” Wainaina said. "The cost of Del Monte leaving Kenya is just too high and the national government can't leave it to county governments to deal with this. They are messing up big time." The parliamentary Committee on Land, chaired by Kitui South MP Rachael Nyamai, is expected to give a rejoinder in the House on Thursday next week. Last year, former Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu signed an agreement with Del Monte in which the company management agreed to cede 630 acres of its unused land in return for lease renewal.