Residents of five counties bordering Lake Victoria are grappling with three calamities, says Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti. He lists Covid-19, flooding and backflow of the lake waters that have displaced hundreds of families. The governor says county leaders in affected areas should work closely with the national government to tackle the problem. He says the national government has agreed to send its officers from the Ministry of Water to visit areas prone to flooding to address the matter. “We’re hopeful the officials will come and assess the situation and provide a long-lasting solution to the perennial problems,” Awiti says. The rising water levels of the lake have also promoted human and wildlife conflicts. Hippos and crocodiles have often attacked families who live near the lake. As they look for food, the animals meet and attack locals. They trespass people’s homes because their grazing riparian lands are covered with water. For instance, a crocodile killed residents at Nyandiwa beach in Suba South constituency, while a hippo killed others at Sango-Rota beach in Nyakach constituency. Since flooding began, Homa Bay and Kisumu counties have recorded eight deaths. Kisumu Deputy Governor Mathews Owili says the county has been badly hit by floods, with more than 7,196 households displaced to various camps and 1,579 more integrated with communities. Owili describes the flooding as the most severe the county has ever experienced since 1963. “We’re advising the displaced people to stay safe and abide by the government regulations to avoid contracting Covid-19 disease,” Owili says. MPs Millie Odhiambo (Suba North), John Mbadi (Suba South) and Tom Odege (Nyatike) have expressed concerns over the rising Lake Victoria water levels. Millie appeals to the national government to evacuate families living on islands especially in Remba Island, where the waters threaten more lives. She says many families in her constituency have been displaced and need relocation to safer areas. “If there is no way we can contain this rise of the lake water levels, then the government should look for an alternative and safer place for the islanders,” Millie says. Thousands of people have had their lives and economic activities thwarted by an increase in the lake water levels, flooding and Covid-19 pandemic. In Suba North, about 70,000 people have been displaced by floods, while at least 143 families are affected in Suba South and 550 families in Karachuonyo. Kenya Red Cross officials have taken tents, utensils, mats and blankets to the affected families so they can set up temporary shelter as they wait for the water level to reduce in Suba North and Karachuonyo. Mbadi says, “Covid-19 disease, coupled with floods, has greatly affected our people economically. Many people have lost their valuables hence they need serious assistance.” The Suba South MP donated 89 bags of maize, 3,000 face masks, 50 bags of beans to needy people in 36 beaches in his constituency. “The foodstuff is aimed at assisting families who have been facing difficulties due to the current situation,” he says. Odege says there is a concern the condition may worsen as the water levels continue to rise. The Nyatike MP says they advise affected families in Migingo Island and other flooded beaches to leave and set up structures on safer grounds. “Migingo, which is the focal fishing ground, is getting submerged. Lives of many fishermen are at risk,” Odege says. He called on the national and county governments to support the affected residents. Odege urges the governments to provide alternative land and building materials for construction of permanent houses in the mainland for people displaced from Migingo Island. “Fishing business is very significant in the growth of Kenya’s economy. I fear we may not realise this if our fishermen continue to live as nomads,” Odege says. “It’s hard for displaced people to avoid overcrowding. They don’t comply with Covid-19 rules of social distancing.” Odege urges the government to complete construction of the Lower Kuja Irrigation project for more production of rice to cushion residents from the looming food shortage. “Covid-19 disease and flooding will leave many Kenyans in poverty. It is prudent for the government to focus on ways of having adequate food to its citizens after the pandemic,” he says.