The Education ministry has a Sh2.6 billion plan it hopes Parliament will approve for reopening primary and secondary schools when normalcy returns post-Covid-19 pandemic. Cabinet Secretary George Magoha says the money will be spent on the repair of schools, provision of psycho-social support to learners, teachers and education officials as well as on scholarships to ensure full re-enrolment of learners. Some Sh1.6 billion is already available, according to the CS. The Covid-19 Emergency Response Plan says money will be used to ensure the health, safety and wellbeing of learners, bolster school feeding programmes and to strengthen data management. The plan was drawn in anticipation that learning institutions would re-open this month but that has been thrown into disarray with the worsening spread of virus. A large portion of the money will be spent on the refurbishment of about 360 schools designated as quarantine and isolation centres. The budget will fund live radio and TV broadcasts so that students can learn at home. The Health ministry projects that infections will peak in August and September, the same period a Magoha-appointed taskforce says schools will be free to open. The Sarah Ruto-led team made therecommendation and Magoha reportedly said there is no problem waiting until January. The ministry says it will proceed with preparations for a smooth resumption of learning once normalcy resumes. President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to address the nation on the way forward for the economy - including schools - in his Madaraka Day address today. The extended containment orders affecting Nairobi, Mombasa, Kwale, Eastleigh, and Mandera will lapse on June 5. If lifted, there is a possibility a directive would follow on how schools will operate in the face of the virus. The taskforce has recommended that the institutions be provided with additional resources to keep them running. Magoha has thus provided Sh9.2 million to disinfect and fumigate at least 460 schools used as isolation and quarantine centres. The ministry also seeks to spend Sh92 million to refurbish classrooms and ablution blocks in the said schools. Schools affected by Covid-19 will also be provided with new set of books and equipment at Sh9.2 million while Sh10 million would go into training teachers in life skills, guidance and counselling. At least 10,000 learners, caregivers and education officials will be given psycho-social support at Sh50 million. Magoha has asked Parliament to approve an additional Sh100 million to sensitise learners, teachers and education staff to deal with post-traumatic stress. He has also asked for Sh10 million for developing and disseminating child-friendly psycho-social messages for about 10,000 schools and Sh1 million for supportive referrals. At least Sh2 million is there for baseline assessment on levels of trauma after the Covid-19 pandemic with another Sh4.7 million sought for counselling centres in all counties. MPs’ approval is needed for Sh500,000 to conduct back to school campaigns and Sh4.7 million for media awareness campaigns on Covid-19 health messages, safety, and social risks. The government also intends to spend Sh20 million on sanitary towels and back to school kits for 2,000 vulnerable learners. To ensure 100 per cent re-enrolment, at least Sh140 million will be provided for vulnerable secondary school students. Some Sh1 million is available for mentorship programmes for boys, girls, and survivors of gender-based violence with Sh10 million sought to update databases. Magoha has also planned Sh5 million for remedial classes targeting low-achieving girls and boys and Sh20 million for a study to determine utilisation of scholarships. On health safety, there will be Sh15 million for Public Works ministry to set up water facilities, toilets for boys and girls, and hand-washing equipment. Another Sh100 million has been planned for hand-washing infrastructure, masks, soaps and sanitisers - of which Sh50 million is available. Magoha seeks to introduce school-based health programmes at Sh1 million as well as strengthen child protection systems within the schools at Sh500,000. The budget request shows that county governments have set aside Sh25 million for providing play material for children in pre-primary education. Another Sh1 million is available for upgrading facilities for children with special education needs and disabilities in terms of desks, toilets, and more staff. At least Sh1 million will be spent to train teachers, learners, education officials, school communities on continuous health, sanitation, and hygiene practices. Some Sh1 million is provided for awareness raising campaigns and school community discussion groups on infectious diseases while Sh500,000 is set for counselling and debriefing services to students, teachers, and support staff in schools used as quarantine centres. The ministry wants MPs to approve Sh1 million for collaboration with the Children Services department and Sh1 million for sanitation and health clubs. Also provided is Sh30 million for monitoring learners’ progress and Sh100 million to disseminate findings of the same. The ministry also intends to conduct a large-scale national learning survey in primary and secondary schools at Sh30 million. Also available is Sh30 million for KNEC to conduct literacy and numeracy assessments in primary and secondary schools and Sh10 million to train MOE staff on M&E. On food provision, Magoha further intends to inject Sh50 million to expand the national school meals programme - to include those affected by Covid-19 and provide hot meals. Some Sh5 million will be spent on training head teachers and school managers to implement health policies. The CS has sought MPs’ approval for additional Sh5 million to sensitise school cooks on hygiene, sanitation, and safe food preparation. The ministry needs Sh30 million to facilitate supply chains to support delivery of food while Sh20 million has been allocated for training learners on hygiene. About Sh2 million will go into monitoring food stocks at school level for safe keeping with a further Sh5 million for school-based health activities. The ministry is seeking Sh10 million to train officers on childhood development and county ECD directors on emergency response plans. Some Sh20 million will be to strengthen the ministry’s ICT platform to enable teleconferencing and virtual communication and Sh10 million to develop an ICT platform for field officers to monitor online learning programmes. Part of the multibillion-shilling kitty is Sh10 million to train education officers and teachers on ICT; and Sh200,000 for designing sensitisation materials prepared for returning teachers. Another Sh15 million has been allocated for ICT infrastructure to ministry headquarters, counties, and learning institutions. Some Sh2 million is needed for schools to develop emergency response plans with Magoha revealing that Sh1 million is available for institutionalising emergency committees. Policy review to include response to infectious diseases would cost Sh500,000, Sh3 million for school audits and Sh20 million to operationalise the call centre. NEMIS will be strengthened  at Sh20 million to include crisis-relevant information while Sh1 million is needed to establish emergency response teams. Magoha has requested Sh10 million to build capacity of officers on crisis management and reporting while Sh25 million be set aside for assessment on compliance with Covid-19 protocols and status of learning. The ministry needs Sh20 million to document lessons learned and good practices; and another Sh20 million to develop basic infrastructure for telecommunication. At least Sh1 million will be spent on developing guidelines for school reopening, conduct of national exams and system resilience and Sh1 million for curriculum recovery plan. The ministry further wants Sh15 million to conduct survey on effects of Covid-19 on education and Sh10 million to train MoE staff and teachers to support data collection. Monitoring and Evaluation system upgrades will cost the ministry Sh10 million while Sh15 million will be for regular monitoring of funded emergency response activities.  - mwaniki fm