Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi has denied being behind publication and distribution of campaign posters in Eldoret town indicating that he will vie for the Senate seat in Uasin Gishu come 2022. The posters which have flooded several areas in Eldoret were circulated last night. Some of the posters bearing his pictures also have writings attacking Governor Jackson Mandago over the purchase of a bank building valued at Sh570 million. "I have always been outspoken on my position. You all know my ways of expressing myself. I don't use such means. My political detractors are stooping too low. Ignore those fake posters," said Sudi in a social media post. He told the Star that he was above such cheap tricks and residents of Uasin Gishu were also mature enough to know the truth. "People of Uasin Gishu County know me very well and such cheap propaganda can't work," said Sudi. Last week Sudi accused Mandago of scheming to buy the National Bank building in Eldoret which he termed as suspect. "Uasin Gishu County does not have fools. We will not allow you to drive the county to the wrong direction like Uhuru is doing to Kenya because we know both of you are going home in 2022," said Sudi. He said the purchase was not a priority for residents of Uasin Gishu and accused Mandago of using the Covid-19 situation to plan and implement things that are against the wishes of the people of the county. The posters circulated in the region, have Sudi's portrait and quotes telling Mandago to stop stealing from Uasin Gishu. The EACC has since suspended the bank project pending investigations. On other posters, Sudi's portrait is placed alongside that of Kesses MP Dr Swarrup Mishra who is rumoured to be a gubernatorial candidate in 2022. Dr Mishra also dismissed the posters as fake and cheap propaganda. "Right now we are focusing on Covid-19 and problems affecting Kenyans. Such fake propaganda will not work and services no purpose at all," said Mishra. Mishra is a known wealthy political leader in the region who owns and operates the Mediheal Group of Hospitals and his name is being mentioned as possible successors of Governor Mandago. Mandago is serving his second and final term. A vicious war of words has erupted among DP Ruto allies in the region with Sudi accusing some senators from the region of betraying Ruto during last week's removal of Senators Kipchumba Murkomen and Kihika Kimani from the leadership of the upper house. Over the past week, the political leaders and their supporters have engaged in a nasty war of words through the social media and vernacular radio stations. The supporters of Sudi and Mandago have accused each other of being behind the circulation of the posters. Interviewed residents of Eldoret said the circulation of the posters was part of differences that have emerged between Mandago and Sudi over the purchase of the bank building.