The appellate court has freed a truck driver convicted of trafficking bhang worth Sh3.7 million following a successful appeal. The court concluded that the life sentence meted was harsh and excessive in the circumstances. Fedman James Musinga was charged with trafficking by conveying in a motor vehicle 15 sacks of cannabis sativa weighing 372kg with a street value of Sh3.7 million on September 28, 2013 in Machakos county. A police constable on patrol with two of his colleagues testified that he got suspicious when he saw a trailer parked by the road. The trio noticed some bags being offloaded from the lorry into two salon cars. “They approached the loaders who ran away after they saw the policemen. They however found the driver at the steering,” court documents read. Checking the 15 bags, they found they contained cannabis sativa. On interrogating Musinga, he said he had been hired by someone to traffic the drugs. He was arrested at Mlolongo and charged. In his defense, Musinga stated that he had gone to get some refreshments and on returning he found the container of his vehicle open. He admitted seeing bhang in the vehicle but denied having loaded the bags since a man had ordered 520 bags of maize from Tanzania. “He intimated that it was his turn boy, who was arrested and later set free, who could have been the one who loaded the bhang onto the vehicle,” the court heard. The trial court however dismissed this defense and termed it as mere denial and blame shifting. Musinga was convicted and sentenced to pay a fine of Sh11,160,000 or 10 years in default, in addition to life imprisonment. Dissatisfied with the lower court judgment, he appealed to the High Court.The appeal was dismissed. Further aggrieved by the High Court decision, Musinga proceeded to the Court of Appeal. He claimed that the sentence imposed was harsh and that the circumstantial evidence “was not free from error.” He claimed the court rejected his defense yet he was not aware of the presence of the drugs. Being remorseful and a first offender, the court merited the appeal and reduced the sentence to the period already served since his arrest in 2013. “In the circumstances we allow the appeal on the sentence. The appellant is set at liberty forthwith unless otherwise lawfully held,” judges Martha Koome, Mohammed Warsame and Fatuma Sichale directed. Edited by Henry Makori