Kwale MCAs will only authorise the disbursement of Sh160 million if the money will be used to buy health equipment and not food, county assembly majority leader Raia Mkungu has said. Mkungu told Governor Salim Mvurya that they won’t approve the proposed supplementary budget because of what he described as inappropriate need. During the first phase of the relief food programme, several ward administrators were accused of irregularly allocating themselves food. This led to their job terminations. He said the increasing cases of Covid-19 are enough proof that the county needs more health equipment than relief food. “The virus is spreading very quickly and patients don’t need beans and rice but ventilators among other medical supplies,” Mkungu said. He said the assembly has agreed that the executive must provide affirmative strategies on how the money is going to be spent and should consider changing the need. The MCA said that to effectively tackle the shortcomings arising from the preventive and treatment measures, the funds should be allocated to the ministries of Health and Water. Mkungu said the Kwale government should concentrate on procuring more ambulances, employing health workers and improving the status of subcounty hospitals to deal with Covid-19. He said the county has had a series of severe hunger and residents have known how to deal with it, unlike the coronavirus. The Ramisi MCA said there is no fight between the executive and the assembly but that they are simply performing their oversight work. Puma MCA James Dawa said there is a need to prioritise health matters over food. “We can borrow food somewhere if things are that bad but we can’t return a soul back to life when Covid-19 takes them,” he said. Dawa said there are no surplus funds to be used to purchase food but that they should deduct the money from the previously proposed projects. He said some of them have taken long to be implemented yet they are very important and deducting their budget is not worth it. One of the projects is Mteza Bridge in Kinango whose Sh20 million has already been sliced from its budget, Dawa said. He said Governor Mvurya must at least give a valid reason as to why the money should be given. Meanwhile, the assembly has formed a committee to investigate the Sh14 million that was borrowed from the county emergency fund to buy food. They have given the executive four days to produce reasonable amendments for their demand and the measures that will be applied to monitor the usage of the projected money. Edited by R.Wamochie