Fifteen chief officers of the Nyandarua administration were sworn in on Tuesday to complete Governor Francis Kimemia's government. Since his election in August 2017, Kimemia has been working with accounting officers held over from Daniel Waithaka's regime. A new County Public Service Board was sworn into office in September last year with new officers appointed. Kimemia said the appointed chief officers will steer Nyandarua county to achieve the pledges he made during campaigns. Those sworn in were Isaac Wanjiru (Youth, Sports and the Arts), Mary Ndorongo (Public Administration and ICT), Sarah Ndegwa (Education), Lawrence Gitau (Public Works), Joseph Machangi (Agriculture), Rose Oyolo (Livestock and Fisheries) and Martin Kabubii Mwangi (Water). Others were Mary Gathegu (Tourism), Samson Mweru (Industrialization), Samuel Muchunu (Co-operatives), Florence Annan (Lands), Nelson Mutua (Health) Juvenalis  Thiong’o (Finance) and Muigai Wainaina (Economic Planning) The county chief said the outgoing officials did their part in shaping the course of Nyandarua county. “To those who have left, we wish them the very best in their endeavours. Their service to this great county is appreciated,” the governor said. Kimemia said the second County Integrated Development Plan (CIDP II) will meet the dreams and aspirations of the people. The governor asked the new officers to work in harmony with county executives, their subordinates and the public. He told the officers to acquaint themselves with the projects in their respective departments. “I need not remind you to observe the highest levels of integrity and accountability in managing public resources,” he said Everyone’s primary responsibility during the Covid-19 outbreak, he said, is to ensure total prevention of the disease and protect the people. Staff in various departments have been scaled down to reduce risks of contracting or spreading of the disease in offices, he said. “Your success will be the success of the people you serve and it will give you eternal satisfaction and contentment,” he said. (edited by o. owino)