The United States embassy in Tanzania has urged its citizens to stay at home and limit visitors to their premises over fears the coronavirus is spreading fast. The embassy said many hospitals in Dar es Salaam have been overwhelmed and medical attention could delay if persons were infected by the virus. "The Tanzanian government has not released any data on Covid-19 in Tanzania since April 29, so there is no current data on the number of people diagnosed with Covid-19 in Tanzania," the embassy said in a statement on Wednesday. In the last count, Tanzania's Covid-19 cases had shot to 480, according to Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa. Recoveries were 167, while the death toll was 16. The US embassy further warned its citizens in Tanzania to prepare to remain there for an indefinite period. All international flights -commercial and passenger were banned on April 11. "The US Government does not anticipate arranging additional repatriation flights in Tanzania at this time," the embassy said. "The risk of contracting Covid-19 in Dar es Salaam is extremely high. Despite limited official reports, all evidence points to the exponential growth of the epidemic in Dar and other locations in Tanzania," it said. The country's Ministry of Health has dismissed reports that about 40 people were dying daily as a "pervasive lie". "This information is a pervasive lie, we want the public to ignore and keep track of all the information on the official social networking pages of the ministry," it said on Twitter. Tanzania President John Maguful last week ordered a probe on the country’s coronavirus testing protocols citing possible interference by unnamed western powers. Magufuli claimed some animal, fruit and oil samples disguised as human samples had tested positive for the virus, raising questions on the credibility of the country’s influenza laboratory. “We extracted a sample from a goat which turned positive. This tells you that something is not adding up,” he said. President Magufuli has been accused of downplaying the rise of coronavirus cases in his country. On Tuesday, he skipped a meeting convened by the East African Community heads of state to discuss Covid-19 response. Meanwhile, the Kenyan government has stepped up its efforts to contain border link infections by setting up a testing facility at the Namanga border point. Health CAS Rashid Aman last week said the facility will also solve the high demand for testing among truck drivers. The Ministry of Health will collaborate with the county government of Kajiado to build the facility. Last week, two new confirmed cases of Covid-19 were from Kajiado. On Thursday, two of 25 confirmed cases were from the county. The Kajiado government said the two had travelled to Tanzania before returning home. (edited by o. owino)