The reality is that the government’s main source of income is tax revenue. With grants that come with strict conditions and the current situation in the country where businesses and economic activities have been disrupted, there is definitely a slump in revenue. Thus, one would expect that the government would try to use any opportunity to raise revenue. The truth is that there are still many business activities that are outside the tax bracket. This is especially for businesses that are conducted online and also those that are considered informal even if their turnover is slightly higher. If you look at the number of people who file tax returns, it is still very low compared to the number of people who are operating businesses in the country. From an administrative perspective, it is far much easier to collect taxes such as Value Added Tax. This is because the operators have PIN numbers which are easy to track for compliance. It is not surprising that the government is trying to make every effort to be able to collect taxes from every angle. This is because the situation is dire and one can only borrow so much. At the same time, you can only get financing for so much, including what people or development partners can donate. Is it the right time to expand the tax bracket? I am not sure. But one way to look at it is that some of the proposals were being made before the Covid-19 pandemic became a reality. I am aware of discussions in other quarters where some of the questions being asked are; so what happens? Should they be adjusted then passed, or passed first then adjusted? The greater possibility for government is not to introduce taxes but basically to go to full austerity. We cannot continue with business as usual – beyond the language of fiscal consolidation, austerity, cutting expenditure, and so on. A lot of unnecessary expenditure needs to be cut and should have been done before, to ensure the resources we have are focused on critical interventions. I am saying so because when economic activities are already going down, even if you target tax collection, then you’ll be setting yourself up for failure. We will be looking at the Finance Bill 2020 in detail and expect that Parliament will also apply itself as they approve it to reflect the reality on the ground.  The International Budget Partnership Kenya Country Manager spoke with the Star