Jomvu MP Badi Twalib on Friday said he has no ill-feelings towards anybody after being  dewhipped from the National Assembly Budget and Appropriation Committee. Twalib said his release from the committee will give him more time to serve his constituents, who he said need his services more than anybody else. “This is an opportunity for me to dedicate my service to the people who elected me,” said Twalib on phone. The second term MP said he declined being in more than one committee in the first place so he can dedicate more time to serving his constituents. The ODM MP was recalled from the committee as part of the purge on supposedly errant members of the Nasa coalition after a parliamentary group meeting at Parliament chambers on Thursday. Twalib and seven other MPs are accused of not towing the coalition line. Those targeted are allies of Deputy President William Ruto, who is being targeted by Jubilee party in an attempt to cut him down to size following his aggressive ambitions to succeed his boss and party leader, President Uhuru Kenyatta. Twalib and fellow MPs Paul Katana (Kaloleni), Aisha Jumwa (Malindi) and Mohammed Ali (Nyali) are the only vocal MPs from the Coast region who have openly declare support for Ruto. The DP had at some point had the support of as many as 22 MPs from the region. But Twalib on Friday said his relationship with Ruto is based on development after the DP helped him build four classrooms for his Miritini Complex Secondary School project, construct more than 200 school desks and his support to churches in the constituency. “During the 100 per cent transition, my children had nowhere to seat because of their overwhelming numbers. Ruto helped me build four classrooms and get 200 desks,” said Twalib. He described Ruto as a personal friend, who has had tea with him at his Jomvu residence twice this year. He said Ruto has been trying to ensure development fruits gets to the grassroots. “If that is why I have been dewhipped, then I respect the decision. Junet Mohammed has just done his job,” said Twalib. Under Article 176 of the Standing Orders, the chief whip has powers to whip or dewhip any member in any committee, Twalib said. He. however, said, “If children learning in a good environment is reason for one to be dewhipped, then I don’t know what being right is.” He  said this is not the time to portray hate towards leaders. “Instead, we should be more united in the fight against this coronavirus that has ravaged us. People have no jobs, no food and no shelter. We have to think about them, not who supports who,”  Twalib said. “The most important thing is to serve our people diligently so that we can move forward as a nation,” said Twalib. Edited by E.Kibii