ODM leader Raila Odinga and Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui have thrown their weight behind Keroche Breweries in the ongoing war between the Naivasha-based company and KRA. The two noted that local investors should be supported, and accused Kenya Revenue Authority of using tax to oppress local investors leading to job losses. They spoke during the burial of Tecra Muigai, daughter of Keroche CEO Tabitha Karanja and her husband Joseph, who was laid to rest in her parents’ home in Karai, Naivasha. Omar Lali, the deceased's lover, is in police custody in connection with the death of Tecra who was the company’s strategy and innovation director. Senators James Orengo and Moses Wetangula, MPs Jane Kihara, Moses Kuria, Nairobi Woman Rep Esther Passaris and Narc-Kenya leader Martha Karua attended the burial. Raila said it was immoral for institutions to use tax to bring down a local company that had employed hundreds. He said that he would stand with the Keroche family during this time when they had lost a daughter and were in court with KRA over Sh9 billion disputed tax. “The government should support local investors who have used billions to construct such companies and KRA should not use its muscle to oppress investors,” he said. Raila likened the loss of Tecra to that of his son Fidel five years ago, terming this as the most difficult moment for the Keroche family. “It’s very painful for a parent to lose a child and I take this opportunity to condole with the family at this very painful and difficult time,” he said. There was a light moment when Raila told the mourners that the BBI had not stopped but was on half-time and would continue once the Covid-19 crisis was over. “Reggae has not stopped as some people want to believe and we shall definitely hit the ground running after we manage to contain this pandemic,” he said. Governor Kinyanjui promised county support for Keroche, terming the investment the pride of area residents. The governor noted that frustrating local investors sent the wrong signals to entrepreneurs keen to put up factories in the country. “We shall stand with the Karanjas at this hard time when all forces are unfairly targeting them and I say pole sana for the loss of your daughter,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori