Police in Busia arrested 28 people following an operation in which over 10,000 bottles of Ugandan liquor were seized. The operation, according to Matayos deputy county commissioner Joseph Onyango, targeted Marachi, an area he described as a den of thugs. One police officer was injured during the operation as residents resisted. Among the items confiscated were 320 cartons of Empire Premium Gin, with 7,680 bottles of 200ml each. Also nabbed were 12 cartons of 07 Vodka containing 288 bottles and 144 bottles of Empire Cane Gin which had been stored in six cartons. Ten crates containing 250 bottles of Eagle Larger were also confiscated. Onyango said police officers during the operation also managed to seize 240 bottles of Garden Tiger Gin packed in 10 cartons as well as five kilograms of bhang. “This is an act of lawlessness. What is happening in Marachi is that the thugs have made the place a no-go zone for police officers and these illicit brews were extracted from that place with a lot of difficulty because they were fighting the police. They were using stones to fight the police and one of our officers was injured,” Onyango said on Saturday. “Police used reasonable force to get these things. What I want to say is that we cannot live in a country where some places are declared a no-go zone for law enforcement officers." He said 800 pairs of assorted shoes were also seized as police began the operation, which he said aims at ending the sale of outlawed liquor brands in the subcounty which hosts Busia town. “I want people from that area to hear very clearly that this is the beginning of their end and we intend to carry out similar operations regularly,” Onyango said. “If they have the energy to fight let them prepare themselves well because we are not relenting. We are also bettering our skills and we are ready for them. Let them know that they better stop those activities because they will not go far. We are not going to allow that. We are giving them a very strong warning.” Onyango said because the Kenya-Uganda border is presently closed as the two countries intensify efforts to fight the spread of Covid-19, traders who deal in illicit brews from Uganda may have used porous border points to sneak into the country the outlawed liquor products. Edited by Henry Makori