Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) Nationwide side Maseno University has been banned from hosting matches at their home ground for four games. Maseno were found guilty of misconduct by Kenya Rugby Union Independent Judicial Committee after their fans invaded the pitch and briefly disrupted the KRU Western region finals against Citam Kisumu. The fans injured one player during the game on February 29. Citam Kisumu defeated Maseno RFC 15-10 in the hotly contested final. Both teams use Maseno University pitch as their home ground. The club had been handed a six-match ban but was reduced to four. The ban takes effect next season. According to the ruling delivered by judicial officer Willy Ombisi: “The club is barred from hosting six (6) home games during the KRU 2020/2021 season. For the avoidance of doubt, the sanction shall take effect from the start of the competition they will be competing in.” The punishment was reduced to four after Maseno acknowledgement of guilt and proposed action plan to mitigate such indents in the future. The jury also took into consideration actions to control the situation by Maseno’s team manager, captain and security personnel. “After the four home game ban and prior to the reinstatement of home games, the club will be required to demonstrate to the KRU, their compliance to the home ground security requirements of the particular competition they will be competing in and mitigation proposals presented,” read part of the ruling. Present during the hearing that was held via video link were KRU's Lawrence Terer  (designated disciplinary officer), Michael Mwanja (fixtures & competitions administrator), Thomas Odundo  ( technical director), Shellan Nyawira ( Maseno RFC representative and head coach) and  Marvin Odhiambo (CITAM Kisumu RFC representative). Maseno RFC were scheduled to battle Shamas in the KRU Championship quarters before the league was indefinitely suspended due to the coronavirus pandemic. In other quarter-finals, Kitale RFC were to face JKUAT Cougars, Kabarak University were to battle Marines Ruby and Citam Kisumu were to host Daystar Falcons.