Three former Senators have sensationally claimed that the recent Jubilee-Kanu merger is part of a wider scheme to have “President Uhuru Kenyatta succeeded by a Kenyatta.” Former Kakamega lawmaker Boni Khalwale, Johnson Muthama (Machakos), and Hassan Omar (Mombasa) hold that plans for a Government of National Unity is part of the scheme. The trio claimed that those backing the arrangement are merely keen on getting a piece of the pie once the deal succeeds. “In the event that the country can be subjected to a referendum to enable a powerful prime minister, then Uhuru Kenyatta will be Kenya’s Prime Minister,” the trio said. In a hard-hitting press statement on Friday, the three former lawmakers further claimed that in the event of a watered-down PM version, Uhuru’s younger brother Muhoho Kenyatta will be PM. The William Ruto allies say the DP’s woes stem from the feeling that he is the standing in the ‘way of a Kenyatta succeeding a Kenyatta’. “For this, they need a president who will play ball, a card dangled to the contracting parties,” the three said of the conversation between Uhuru and his handshake partner Raila Odinga. The ODM leader is said to be pushing for stakes that would see his side take charge of reviving the country’s failing economy. The Ruto allies said the DP is unwanted as he “has contradicted conventional ethnic sensibilities to command bogging and overwhelming support over Uhuru in Mt Kenya.” The leaders say the situation is bound to get worse in the ‘purported quest to have Mt Kenya on the table in [Uhuru’s] bid to win over the lost base. “The erosion of the Constitution and its institutions, wanton illegalities and the victimization, as well as coercion of elected leaders from Mt Kenya region, is set to get worse.” Muthama and company also condemned the removal of Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen and Majority Whip Susan Kihika. They termed the developments as a “return of the Kanu-style of impunity”, further criticizing the Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju side of instigating the changes illegally. The trio decried the unleashing of administrative violence against women, probably in respect of Jubilee nominated senators facing the sack. Senators Millicent Omanga, Naomi Waqo, Mary Seneta, Falhada Dekow, and Victor Prengei were served show-cause letters on why they skipped the State House meeting where the changes were voted. “In doing so, an illegitimate party leadership made a lurid mockery of the party’s institutions and the very principle of democracy by contemptuously assaulting the party list the voters endorsed,” the Muthama-team said. They accused the team behind the Jubilee changes of taking advantage of the cessation of normalcy to ‘steal a march ahead of the country’. “Be warned that the Kanu-style dictatorship is back with its offspring and surrogates on both sides of the political divide,” the trio said. On this, the trio urged Kenyans to “resist the erosion of our hard-won constitutional dispensation and condemn the sacrilegious recklessness that threatens to overrun the nation.”