Detectives from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations are investigating importers and exporters of consolidated cargo to curb tax cheats. The agency suspects under-declaration and misdeclaration by traders in a tax evasion racket that has been denying the government revenues in billions of shillings. DCI detectives are pursuing directors of some firms involved in under-declaration of imports through the splitting of shipments and then packaging them into one container for delivery. On Friday, DCI sleuths stormed a warehouse in Nairobi owned by the African Cargo Facility, as the multi-agency team tackling tax evasion scaled up operations. This follows claims that the firm could have undervalued consignments and aided irregular dispatch of imported goods, enabling some companies to evade levies due to KRA. During the visit, a consignment of electronic goods' mainly mobile phones that had just been imported was discovered. The goods were said not to have been regularly declared. Air waybill no 155-02845312 delivered by DHL and delivered to its warehouse at JKIA, indicated the consignment of 833 pieces of boxes but did not indicate its weight or state the product name. On the other hand, air waybill no 155-02545443 destined for Nairobi had 832 pieces of boxes but also did not indicate its weight or state the product name. Detectives are looking into allegations of tax evasion, money laundering, abuse of office, and conspiracy to commit economic crimes. “This is a matter that is denying the country due taxes. We are expanding our operations to net other firms aiding this illegality,” reads the file in part. The detectives are also targeting Rolling Cargo Company Limited, the importer of the discovered imports. According to police, the firm could have opted for cargo consolidation also called freight consolidation thus denying the Kenya Revenue Authority due taxes. Yesterday, the firm's director Mohamed Hassan told the Star that he could not respond to the matter at the moment. “I can only respond later not now, thank you,” he said. The firm is said to have been allowing relaxed shipping speeds and putting items from multiple shippers into one shared shipping packaging to deny KRA taxes. According to DCI, the firm has been importing large consignments of goods but is alleged to be irregularly splitting shipments and then packaging them into a bigger container for delivery. This method known as consolidation leaves up to 80 per cent of the cargo to be moved without due taxes being paid to KRA. Commonly seen in international export, it involves packaging, or bundling, multiple small shipments into one large shipment for distribution to the same end location. Last month, Rolling Cargo directors made a report at Buruburu police station that their cargo had been stolen from their warehouse at African Cargo facility. In the report made on April 9, the complainant Mohamed Mohamed, the director of Rolling Cargo Limited, alleged that mobile phones worth over Sh120 million had been stolen. The consignment also included 750 cartons of Infinix phones. Three suspects have so far been arrested and are facing charges in connection to the theft. However, the DCI officers are keen to record statements from the directors of the firm whose imports were stolen including Mohammed, Omer Gule and Mohamed Gulet. President Uhuru Kenyatta's anti-graft war has also been targeting tax evasion, a fight that has seen some big firms' directors charged. (edited by o. owino)