  The national agricultural research institution has distributed 25,000 kilos of potato seeds for multiplication in six counties. The counties include Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Bomet, Nyandarua, Nyeri and Taita Taveta. Agriculture CS Peter Munya said farmers are expected to produce certified affordable potato seeds after six months, which will be added to the current annual production of 6,500 tonnes of certified seed. He spoke on Monday while flagging off potato seeds produced by breeders at the Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organisation. “This will improve farmer access to certified potato seeds which will mitigate the effect of Covid-19 on potato production. Potato is the second most important crop after maize that is produced in 20 counties under varying socio-economic and climatic conditions. Potato farmers in these counties continue to face various production challenges leading to an average production of 10 tonnes per hectare against a potential of 60 tonnes per hectare,” Munya said. Eliud Kireger, Kalro director general, said basic seeds are produced under the highest level of genetic control to ensure the seed is pure and accurately represents the variety characteristics identified by the breeder during selection. He said the seed requires further multiplication and is therefore given out to seed producers to multiply it for wide distribution to farmers. "Currently, a bag of certified potato seeds is selling at Sh3,500 and once these seeds are distributed to farmers, the prices are likely to come down to about Sh2,700," Kireger said. Munya said climate change continues to be a major challenge to potato production. He said although Kalro has made several efforts to mitigate the effects of climate change, the recent outbreak of the Covid-19 is a threat that is undermining those efforts and is likely to exacerbate the consequences. “Kalro has therefore made efforts in responding to the effects of Covid-19 by availing potato basic seed to farmers in Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Bomet, Nyandarua, Nyeri and Taita Taveta counties to produce certified seed for farmers as well as providing planting materials of various commodities,” Munya said. Potato is one of the value chains projected to add 2,500 metric tonnes of certified potato into the national seed supply annually. Munya said there will be a training of 60 county extension staff on climate-smart potato production practices with an emphasis on revitalising seed production and distribution in the six counties. The CS said the government in conjunction with the counties has identified and screened farms that have been sampled by KEPHIS to ensure suitability of identified seed bulking sites and land preparation and procurement of planting inputs undertaken. Munya said with the Covid-19 pandemic, invasion by desert locusts and the current floods, it is anticipated that the farming community will be adversely affected in terms of food security and livelihoods. “There is urgent need to develop additional strategies that will enable these communities to recover and also make them more resilient to future challenges.” He directed all the institutions under the ministry to increase the number of seedlings for distribution during the October-November-December rains. “This is in addition to the 800,000 ready seedlings that were to be distributed during the March, April, May long rains season. We plan to have a major seedlings distribution in the next season to farmers and the target is to issue more than three times the number of seedlings that you are currently preserving,” Munya said.  