Tusker FC are capitalising on the current break occasioned by the coronavirus outbreak around the globe to give their Ruaraka grounds a new face-lift. Tusker management yesterday confirmed the ongoing rehabilitation of the playing surface. Tusker chairman, Daniel Aduda, said they are currently working on the surface and drainage system which have been in bad shape despite their financial muscle. The administrator said they have decided to capitalise on the break to work on the sorry state of the surface. He, however, paid glowing tribute to their groundsman Wycliffe Omondi for his good work at the grounds. Tusker and the Kenyan Premier League Stadia and Security Committee have been on the receiving end for giving the facility the green light to host top-flight matches. Besides hosting KPL matches, the pitch has in the past staged National Super League and Shield Cup duels. "The pitch was being overused when before coronavirus struck. We trained and play our home matches at the venue. We took advantage of the break and began rehabilitating the surface. The rains have played in our favour and our groundsman is doing a commendable job. We have been accused from time to time of playing on a poor surface but that will be a thing of the past," said Aduda. Aduda also confirmed plans to erect stands at the facility in the near future as part of their vision to transform the pitch to the required standards. Meanwhile, he insisted that the club will not take sides in the recent KPL/FKF supremacy battles which were generated after the latter controversially concluded the season. Tusker were among a host of clubs who had a clear chance of winning the title as they were placed third with 46 points before the competition was suspended as a precaution measure to the spread of the coronavirus. Aduda called on the two bodies to bury their differences and come up with a solution to the league status. He singled out FKF for blame after it emerged that they did not consult KPL and other relevant stakeholders before concluding the season. "There is a lot of confusion but we will watch the unfolding from the fence. We will not take sides at all but we call upon the two bodies to put aside their differences and resolve the matter. They would have consulted and reached out to clubs before making such a big decision. We shall, however, abide by the decision the two bodies will agree on," he added.