Two grandchildren who forged their late grandmother’s will to disinherit her son will spend 10 years in jail. High Court judge Grace Macharia dismissed their appeal seeking to overturn a sentence by a Magistrate’s court. Caroline Wambui Macharia and John Henry Mwangi were handed rightful sentence, justice Macharia ruled. “In view of the direct and circumstantial evidence above, I find that the prosecution proved the offences of forgery against the appellants beyond any reasonable doubt,” Macharia said. Their plea for non-custodial sentence was also denied, meaning they'll have to spend time in prison. “The circumstances, according to the trial court, justified custodial sentences so as to serve retributive and deterrent measures. The trial court observed that the offences involved total dishonesty committed by the appellants,” Macharia said. “I cannot add more than concur with the learned trial magistrate. I find the sentences imposed by the trial court on the two counts were reasonable and I have no reason to interfere with them,” she said. The judge said from the evidence on record, it appears that once Wambui and her siblings realised Josephine Mwangi, the grandmother, was gravely ill and likely to die intestate, they hatched "a well-choreographed plot" to ensure they benefited from her estate. This plot, the judge noted, involved forging the will to deceive David Kinuthia, the son, that the deceased had bequeathed them prime properties at his expense. The granny died intestate on March 6, 2004. The two faced three counts but were convicted on two counts. The first count involved forging the will on April 28, 2000. Count two indicated that they forged a will purporting it to be that of their grandmother. On the third count, they forged consent to confirmation of grant purporting it to be a consent signed by Kinuthia. They denied all the three charges. They were found guilty of two counts and convicted. They were sentenced to serve seven years imprisonment each for count two, and three years imprisonment each for count three. They appealed, listing 21 grounds. They accused the magistrate of disregarding material evidence by an advocate who confirmed she prepared the will. They said the magistrate made a mistake by accepting evidence based on uncertified copies of the will and consent of confirmation of grant instead of the originals. They also accused the magistrate of failing to take judicial notice that Kinuthia raised his complaint eight years after the reading of the will. Kinuthia lived in a rental house in Satellite Estate but at the time of his mother's demise, he was living at her home in Kawangware with his son. In November 2004, Kinuthia contracted spinal tuberculosis and remained sick until sometime in 2005. After treatment, Caroline took him to a rehabilitation centre in Ngong and later returned to Kawangware. In May 2005, the two grandchildren convened a meeting at the deceased’s house in which an advocate read a will purportedly made by their grandmother on April 28, 2000. It was purportedly witnessed by a former tenant and friend of the deceased. In the will, Kinuthia had been given a plot that was to be sold and proceeds shared amongst the grandchildren and their sister Irene Wanjiru, in case he declined to accept it. Kinuthia was surprised because the deceased had been seriously ill for a while and thus could not have had the capacity to make a will. He was also not in bad terms with the deceased. Those who attended the meeting did not get to see the will. It was read out. In her defence Caroline said her mother was single and they used to live with her at their grandmother’s place. Being the first born, she would take care of both her mother and grandmother. Sometime in 1992, their mother fell ill and passed on in 1993. She alleged that in January 1993, Kinuthia bought traditional pots and broke them outside their house after which their mother died a month later. The grandmother, she said, believed Kinuthia had cursed their mother because the breaking of pots is considered a curse in Kikuyu culture. "As such, the deceased chased Kinuthia and his family out of the family property," Caroline said. Before their mother died, she asked their grandmother to write a will since Kinuthia used to cause a lot of chaos at home. Their mother helped the deceased to initiate the will preparation process, she said. 