Hundreds of shoppers in Eldoret Town and its surrounding  were shocked by a new raft measures put in place to contain the spread of Covid-19. This came amid one confirmed case of corona virus that was recorded inUasin Gishu County sending panic and anxiety among the local resident sand the business community. Shoppers entering supermarkets, malls and hardware shops without wearing face masks were being turned away by hawk eyed security guards at the entrance. Some of the measures the management of business chain have resolved to enforce to the letter include sanitiSer, maintenance of social distancing, and hand washing as indicated in the ministry of health guideline. It was noted that scores of customers were not adhering to the requirements set by the government to help fight spread of the virus that has so far claimed the lives of six people in the country. “We shall not allow going forwarded any customers who flout the Ministry of Health guidelines into our business premises as one way of containing the rapid spread of Covid-19,” said a senior manager of a mall situated along Eldoret-Nairobi highway who declined to be named. He asked the shoppers who feel  inconvenienced  by their rules to bear with the situation noting  the measures they have taken was not meant to drive them away but for the good of their health. “We have decided to enforce the ministry of health guidelines because majority of our customers were not adhering to the requirements and posing dangers to other shoppers in the event of infection of the disease,” he said. At the same time, a local  private security firm in the county has volunteered to render its services to various business outlets in Eldoret, Kitale and Kapsabet by sensitizing   the residents to observe the government guidelines. Benard Khamala, the owner of Eldoret based Badma Security Company said they dispatched 50 security guards in main towns of North Rift region to carry out the exercise in partnership with devolve units. He said that many people especially in rural parts of the country were still ignorant of threats posed by the disease by failing to observethe guideline that has been announced by the national government. Speaking to the press in Eldoret town Khamala said they were mainlyfocusing their sensitization forums at business premises including malls and supermarkets which are prone to corona virus due to high number of human contacts in such the places. “We are imploring to the customers in various business premises to wear face masks, avoid gatherings or overcrowding in or outside the malls, supermarkets and shops to avoid possible infection of the virus,” he said. He said that it was only through adherence to the Ministry of Health guideline, that the people will be save from infections related to the corona virus that still remain a big challenge to eradicate.