Doctors are worried about the delay in hiring additional health workers despite the rising number of Covid-19 cases across the country. The Kenya Medical Practitioners Pharmacists and Dentists’ Union on Monday decried lack of progress in recruiting new workers yet an advertisement inviting applications for 5,000 healthcare jobs was made nearly a month ago. The union, in a statement, blamed conflicted interests in county and national governments for the state of affairs. The advertisement called on the county governments to hire an additional 5,000 healthcare workers to beef up the war against Covid-19. KMPPDU said there has since been no communication on recruitment. It said none of the applicants had been called for interviews. The medics say frontline health workers are overwhelmed by the workload as the number of Covid-19 cases continue to swell. This is on top of the regular medical services. “More health workers continue to be quarantined as a result of exposure to Covid-19 and contact,” KMPDU acting secretary general Chibanzi Mwachonda said. Health Director General Patrick Amoth disclosed recently that 34 out of the total positive cases in the country are healthcare workers, a 3.3 per cent representation of all the cases. “KMPDU members remain in workplaces despite a myriad of challenges including salary delays, stagnation in promotions, poor working conditions, lack of quality and adequate PPE, lack of accommodation for healthcare workers involved in the management of confirmed Covid-19 cases,” Mwachonda said. He said their expectation is that the two levels of government will reciprocate by addressing the issues. The medics faulted the National Hospital Insurance Cover for declining to renew comprehensive civil service cover for workers on the frontline of Covid-19 fight. "This goes against the UHC principle of financial protection against catastrophic out of pocket expenditure," the union said. The doctors appreciated Kenya Covid-19 Fund Board's prioritisation of the procurement of PPE to protect health workers. “We anticipate that the first batch of PPE is ready for dispatch to identified hospitals and Covid-19 centres across the country. However, we urge the two levels of government (county and national) to equally prioritise and provide PPEs to health workers.” The union had projected that the government will hire 870 additional doctors to handle Covid-19 cases countrywide. “KMPDU notes that the number of cases reported has surpassed the 800 mark and will continue to rise. Taking a look at the last 48 hours and the figures coming up we anticipate to surpass 1,000 case mark in the next few days,” Mwachonda said. The differences between the national and county governments are evident in the ongoing debate on allowances for frontline healthcare workers. The national government has directed counties to reorganise their budgets and pay medical allowances for their staff. Health is a devolved service. But the Council of Governors' chairman Wycliffe Oparanya says counties are yet to access the equitable share of disbursements from the National Treasury due to bureaucracies in the office of the Controller of Budget. Last week, he accused the office of imposing unnecessary conditions for disbursement of funds to the county governments. The CoG chair also said that counties are yet to access donor funds due to failure by the national government to provide guidelines on the absorption of grants from Danida (Danish International Development Agency) to fight the pandemic. “Following correspondence by Danida, we have noted the frustration that the development partner is facing from the National Treasury that has hampered expeditious processing of the money meant for an emergency response to the current crisis,” Oparanya said. In their statement yesterday, the doctors also demanded that the Health Service Commission be included in the Referendum Bill discussion in Parliament. Mwachonda said the commission will go a long way in reducing the number of industrial disputes by standardising the implementation of public service principles and guidelines for all health workers.  - mwaniki fm 