The rapid rate of coronavirus infections in Nairobi slums is a growing concern for the government. Out of 85 positive cases reported in Nairobi in the last 24 hours, 33 were from Mathare while Kibera recorded 14. The country recorded the highest ever figure of coronavirus cases announced by the Health ministry in a day. This was the first triple figure to be recorded in a day since the first case was reported in the country on March 13. The total number of cases in the country stood at 1,471 on Wednesday. They were from 3,077 samples tested. The number of tests conducted since the first case is now 67,341. Other areas with cases were Embakasi West (12), Embakasi Central (four) while Kamukunji had three. Dagoretti North had two positive cases with Roysambu, Lang’ata, Embakasi North and Embakasi South recording one case each. Westlands, Madaraka, Ruaraka and Starehe had four, three and two cases, respectively. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said the figures so far shared illustrated the rapid rate of transmission in the informal settlements of Nairobi. “This means that there is a raging number of infections in these areas. We either live in those places, have a relative who resides there or know someone else who does,” Kagwe said. Kagwe said the figures showed the disease was within the communities and no individual was safe. “You can see some of the highest infections come from areas where public transport is the main means of transportation yet we have noticed that many have reverted to the old ways of travel disregarding social distancing rules and not obeying masking guidelines,” the CS said. “Be it the mama mboga in the market or a rich person, no one can say the virus is far from them.” The CS cautioned those who hid under falsehoods or any form of security about immunity to Covid-19, adding that even though numbers in Eastlands were rising it did not mean the same was not happening elsewhere. He appealed to Kenyans to volunteer for mass testing should the exercise be brought in an estate near them. He said knowing an individual’s status was important not only for themselves but also for those they want to protect. He further appealed to PSV owners, drivers and riders to adhere to the directives put in place by the ministry and called on passengers to ensure they wore face masks and observed social distancing at all times. “You don’t know whom you are sitting next to and from the figures we are getting it will be safe to assume that person you are sitting or standing next to is positive. Once you assume they are positive, you will not want to remove that mask because you will be protecting yourself.” He said the increase in community infections was because of an increase in community contacts. Kagwe, however, preached a message of hope to Kenyans, saying that despite the spike in numbers, there was a need to appreciate that the infections were relatively low as compared to other countries, and particularly when it came to the numbers of those who had succumbed to the disease. Three more people were discharged from hospital, bringing the total number of patients who have successfully undergone treatment to 408. The new cases are aged between one year and 76 years, comprising 78 men and 45 women. Other counties that recorded cases include Kiambu (four), Kajiado (three), Kisumu (two) while Garissa, Kitui, Kilifi, Busia, and Uasin Gishu recorded one case each. Three more patients succumbed to the virus, bringing the total number of fatalities to 55. Two had diabetes and while the third had breast cancer. The ministry will conduct a visit to counties to assess and ascertain the level of preparedness, the CS said. Kagwe vowed to unearth criminals based at Afya House who were using ministry resources to engage in fake tenders such as supply of computers, pens, blood and PPEs. The CS said some used fake logos of the ministry to make their fake deals. “This building here called Afya House has some very good and committed people who work so hard day and night in such difficult circumstances but the building has got its fair share of criminals,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori