Opposition chief Raila Odinga on Thursday led talks with a crucial decision-making organ of ODM to strike a deal on his working terms with Jubilee. This comes as it emerged that President Uhuru Kenyatta's team is working round the clock to seal a deal with Raila's camp before the end of next week so that a unity government can be unveiled. The Star has established that ODM has ruled out signing a post-election coalition agreement with Jubilee and would instead allow its members to join the unity government individually. This would ensure ODM does not lose its identity as the country's main opposition party. The party will, however, accept Uhuru's reported offer of Cabinet slots and influential positions in government, including parastatals, in the anticipated new-look government of national unity. The meeting, held at Capitol Hill office, was attended by members of the Central Management Committee including Raila, John Mbadi (ODM chairman), Timothy Bosire (treasurer) and secretary general Edwin Sifuna. Party director of elections Junet Mohamed and ODM executive director Oduor Ong'wen were present. The ODM's Central Management Committee is a key organ that oversees the running of party affairs on behalf of the NEC, just like Jubilee's National Management Committee. Raila convened the talks to agree on the finer details of his deal with Uhuru before a unity government could be unveiled in a looming major reshuffle. A source within Raila's camp told the Star that ODM had given the party leader the go-ahead to accept the offer to work with the Jubilee government. “Our party leader has the blessings of all organs to agree on how he can work with Uhuru's government without diminishing the identity of the party,” a senior ODM official, who sought anonymity, said. Baringo Senator Gideon Moi has already inked a coalition agreement with the ruling party as the President plans what his allies call a “succession Cabinet.” The President plans to sack Cabinet ministers allied to Deputy President William Ruto in a major government shake-up that would bring on board key opposition figures. Uhuru has fallen out with his deputy, and is trying to reach out to the opposition to steady the shaky Jubilee boat. On Thursday, Mbadi said a post-election coalition agreement would be unlikely given the “special space ODM occupies as the minority in the country's politics.” “What I would tell you is that ODM is not going to quickly have the kind of arrangement that Kanu has with Jubilee because the circumstances are different,” Mbadi told the Star before getting into Thursday's meeting. The Suba South MP, was, however, quick to add that ODM could be exploring the possibility of a 2022-pre-election coalition agreement with the President's party. “ODM has not resolved to sign a coalition agreement with Jubilee now. If it is going to happen, it will happen later. I don’t see any coalition now,” he insisted. “We will build a coalition but that we will do gradually. It is not something that you will wake up to and find that ODM has entered into a coalition with Jubilee.” Sources told the Star that the President has set a deadline within which a modus operandi must be agreed on with Raila ahead of the launch of a government of national unity. It is understood the President plans to set up the GNU before proceeding to Parliament for a State of the Nation Address next month. The National Assembly is currently on a month-long recess until June 2 when they are set to resume sittings. “The negotiations have not been concluded yet because the opposition leader has not accepted the offer on the table. However, we are working on a tentative deadline of Wednesday next week to finalise the arrangement,” a source within the presidency told the Star. It is understood that Uhuru has received the green light from Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and ANC boss Musalia Mudavadi – both of whom have each forwarded two names of their preferred Cabinet nominees. Raila's demands for a bigger stake in the Uhuru government and sharing of posts based on political parties strength is said to have delayed the unveiling of the unity executive. The ODM leader is said to have demanded four Cabinet slots and controlling sway in state parastatals. Edited by A.N