Daggers are drawn in the all-out war for the control of Jubilee Party with Deputy President William Ruto's allies demanding the reversal of the changes made in the National Management Committee. Deputy secretary-general Caleb Kositany described as null and void the appointment of the five NMC members whose names were published in the Saturday newspapers by secretary-general Raphael Tuju. Kositany asked party members to ignore the appointments. The five NMC members are Lucy Nyaguthii Macharia, Marete Marangu, Walter Nyambati, Jane Nampaso and James Waweru. Kositany insisted that the party must convene meeetings of the National Executive Council, Parliamentary Group and the national delegates  to resolve the months'-old disagreement in the ruling party. “We want the party to convene the NEC, a PG and a meeting with all MCAs, and branch chairmen over this issue,” he told the Star on phone. President Uhuru Kenyatta has taken total control after kicking out pro-Ruto party officials from the NMC. The Jubilee war is also believed to be headed to the House where changes in parliamentary leadership are expected. Ruto’s allies hold most of these positions. Kositany, a close ally of the Deputy President, said they will not allow to be taken for granted. “Kindly treat the notice published in the Saturday Nation and Standard on Saturday (May 2), as works of imposters and con artists working on their own volition in exercising powers they do not have,” he said on May 2. On April 12, the Deputy President used almost similar words to vent his anger when the list of the names to the NMC first came up. “This is the work of political rejects, con men and fraudsters whose party allegiance is already elsewhere. They should give us a break and leave the Jubilee Party,” Ruto wrote on Twitter. Ruto claimed President Uhuru Kenyatta was not aware that Jubilee had been infested with ‘fraudulent people and con men’. Kositany said the National Executive Committee noted with "deep concern and utmost regret" the notice placed in the Saturday Nation and Standard by Tuju concerning purported changes to the NMC. “The said notice has not been sanctioned by a meeting of the NEC as per the demands of the party constitution. It is therefore null and void.” The Soy MP explained that the NMC is a creation of NEC and any membership change can only be effected after an official resolution of the latter. “To the best of the knowledge of all bona fide members of Jubilee Party, there has not been any such meeting.” NEC members include party leader Uhuru, Ruto, chairman Nelson Dzuya, the vice-chairman, secretary-general, deputy secretary-general, treasurer, deputy treasurer, organising secretary, deputy organising secretary, House majority leaders Aden Duale (National Assembly) and Kipchumba Murkomen (Senate). The others are Chief Whips Benjamin Washiali (National Assembly) and Susan Kihika (Senate). Kositany said arrangements are underway to convene the NEC in compliance with the direction issued by the Registrar of Political Parties on April 16. “The registrar directed that any such changes should be made in accordance with the procedures and processes of the Jubilee Party constitution and structures. In the meantime the NEC urges all members to remain calm as we await the aforementioned meeting and directions thereafter,” he said. Nominated Senator Isaac Mwaura said Jubilee has not proper structures as officials are on interim basis and one cannot tell who is at the branches. “The party failed to transition to become a true political party, something that is symptomatic of our borrowed democracy. We cannot even tell who the bona fide delegates are to begin with,” he stated. Mwaura said the country is just about to witness a serious showdown for the control of the party, which will split into two or more factions. “The party is largely over,” he said. Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa has indicated that they will file a case in court to challenge the NMC appointments. Barasa, another close Ruto ally, said they will also seek to remove Tuju from office for allegedly failing in his mandate. His is also the view of Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei who accuses Tuju of incompetence. The DP allies allege that Uhuru awarded his niece, Nana Gecaga, a multimillion-shilling tender to supply key campaign materials in the run-up to the 2017 elections.  - mwaniki fm 