Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia has said he will go to any length to stop criminals who have been terrorising residents, especially in Ol Joro Orok. The governor on Tuesday said criminals cannot be allowed to continue killing residents with impunity. “We shall go to any length even if it means using technology or inviting the National Intelligence Service (NIS) to assist us track these criminals. It is very shameful and painful for me to buy coffins to bury innocent people killed by criminals,” Kimemia said. He said his administration is ready to work with the national government and all security agencies to ensure the culprits are arrested and prosecuted. Kimemia warned that criminals in Nyandarua need to know he was once in charge of the entire national security system, and he knows how to go after and deal with outlaws, even if it means wearing a police uniform. County commissioner Boaz Cherutich said the government is working around the clock to ensure criminals in Nyandarua are tamed for good. He said detectives from the DCI headquarters were last Friday sent to Nyandarua to track down the killers. “I urge residents, especially from the affected areas to share the relevant information with these officers to ensure the culprits are apprehended to create a conducive atmosphere for people to live without fear," the administrator said. The two spoke at Nyandarua county headquarters during the swearing-in of 15 chief officers. Their statements were informed by recent killings in Ol Joro Orok, where two women aged 23 and 30 and a child aged five were killed by burrowing criminals. The murders remain unresolved as no suspect has been arrested. Cherutich said in the last three months there has been no case of livestock theft in Nyandarua. However, he said, on Sunday night criminals struck at Charagita, Ol Joro Orok, where they stole 20 sheep belonging to Nyandarua Public Service Board chairman William Gatehi’s father. He said the security agencies have crucial leads and the culprits will not go far.  Edited by A.N