THE BATTLE OF egos and control of billions meant for Covid-19 mitigation continues to fuel the cold war in the Cabinet. Corridors understands that critical dockets have been locked out of the cash meant to combat the pandemic. Those in the know say some ministries that play critical roles in the fight against the disease have not received a penny donated by well-wishers and the government. This is said to have disappointed those who intended to donate for the cause due to transparency and accountability issues. Many now prefer direct donations. ***** BUSINESSMEN IN KISUMU, especially those of Indian extraction, are up in arms over extortion and intimidation by Kenya Revenue Authority regional office investigators. They say the extortionists are driving them out of business. The team of three coerce businessmen to quench their thirst for bribes with threats of prosecution. The traders want KRA Commissioner General James Mburu to rein in the rogue officers tainting the taxman's image or else they expose them. ***** JUST WHY ARE some City Hall officials still harassing traders and collecting ‘levies’, even after the Kenya Revenue Authority was given the job? The county officers have been collecting thousands of shillings on the pretext of raising revenue for the county. They operate mainly in markets and estates. They do not issue receipts for the money collected. Recently, they stormed a market in Starehe constituency and carted away the merchandise of a disabled trader after she failed to produce Sh2,000 bribe. The traders are asking if Governor Mike Sonko or NMS boss Mohamed Badi are aware of the extortionists. ***** A SECTION OF martial arts sports organisation officials is in panic mode. Reason? Their recent “ghost trip” abroad has caught the attention of the dreaded anti-corruption agency. It is alleged that their trip was funded by the taxpayer but insiders say they never travelled. They switched off their phones at the airport and shared the proceeds. Now they are trying to figure out how they will get original copies of visas and other documents to justify the ‘trip’ and evade the probe and prosecution. Our moles in government tell us that this might not be their first or last “ghost trip”.