A Senate committee has ordered the environmental regulator Nema to explain how a sugar miller in Kisumu was closed. The Committee on Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries said it needs to understand the chronology of events leading to the closure of Kibos and Allied Sugar Company to probe it competently. Committee chairman Njeru Ndwiga said members must understand how the National Environment Management Authority arrived at its decision. Nema acting director–general Mamo Mamo told the committee they had been engaging Kibos for over 15 years without success. “It was not a sudden closure. We have been in discussions with Kibos over the factory’s pollution for many years,” he said. Nema even placed Kibos under a compliance assistance programme to assist it adopt cleaner production technologies in 2010, he said. Ndwiga postponed the session to Thursday next week (May 14) so members can study the agency’s report on the closure. “Submit the report to the committee then we meet on Thursday next week. Only then will we be able to probe the closure of the factory from an informed position,” he said. Kisumu Senator Fred Outa said the matter was weighty since the factory directly benefitted over 10,000 sugar cane farmers. Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang’ said Nema should also explain its efforts to curb pollution of Lake Victoria by other industries. On March 6, Nema closed Kibos for polluting the environment. The closure order applied to its distillery, paper plant, gas plant and a sugar miller. Mamo said that the decision was taken after the company defied air quality regulations of 2014 and other orders. He said that tests showed Kibos produced a very high concentration of particulate matter, which is above the national air quality standard of PM10. Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o assured locals that both Nema and the factory will work together to resolve the issue of dangerous gas emissions. Some leaders in the region accused Nema of selective closure of companies linked to pollution of Lake Victoria and the environment. Farmers, on the other hand, appealed for intervention by President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga to save the company. (edited by o. owino)