At least 6,000 children could die everyday from preventable causes over the next six months as the Covid-19 pandemic continues to weaken health systems and disrupt routine services. The estimate is based on an analysis by researchers from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Unicef says. The findings were published in the Lancet Global Health Journal on May 13. The analysis estimates that an additional 1.2 million under-five deaths could occur in just six months, due to reductions in routine health service coverage levels and an increase in child wasting. This is based on the worst of three scenarios in 118 low- and middle-income countries. These potential child deaths will be in addition to the 2.5 million children who already die before their fifth birthday every six months in the 118 countries included in the study. Unicef now says that this threatens to reverse nearly a decade of progress on ending preventable under-five mortality. Around 56,700 more maternal deaths could occur in just six months, in addition to the 144,000 deaths that already take place in the same countries over a six-month period. “Under a worst-case scenario, the global number of children dying before their fifth birthday could increase for the first time in decades,” Unicef executive director Henrietta Fore said. Fore added: “We must not let mothers and children become collateral damage in the fight against the virus. And we must not let decades of progress on reducing preventable child and maternal deaths be lost.” The virus is causing disruptions in countries that have an already weak health system in terms of supply chains while at the same time causing a strain on finances and human resources. Another concern is that lockdowns, curfews and interruption is transport systems have led to a decline in hospital visits. In addition, communities remain fearful of infection. Unicef in a commentary to the report warns these disruptions could result in potentially devastating increases in maternal and child deaths. The paper analyses three scenarios for the impact of reductions in lifesaving interventions due to the crisis on child and maternal deaths. “The Covid-19 crisis is a child rights crisis. We need an immediate, medium and long-term response that not only addresses the challenges created by the pandemic and its secondary impacts on children, but also outlines a clear vision for building back a better world when the crisis finally recedes,” Fore said. The UN agency warns that in the least severe scenario, where coverage is reduced around 15 per cent, there would be a 9.8 per cent increase in under-five child deaths, or an estimated 1,400 a day, and an 8.3 per cent increase in maternal deaths. In the worst-case scenario, where health interventions are reduced by around 45 per cent, there could be as much as a 44.7 per cent increase in under-five child deaths and 38.6 per cent increase in maternal deaths per month. These interventions range from family planning, antenatal and postnatal care, child delivery, vaccinations and preventive and curative services. “We need everyone’s ideas, resources, creativity and heart. It is our shared responsibility today, to reimagine what the world will look like tomorrow,” Fore said. Edited by Henry Makori