Nyeri County assembly Health Services Committee chairman Joseph Nderitu has differed with the executive over the number of wheelchairs at the Nyeri County Referral Hospital. Nderitu said the hospital's outpatient department has only two wheelchairs and that the same applies to other health facilities in the county. But Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga and his Health CEC Rachel Kamau have vehemently denied the claims. Nderitu who is also the MCA for Mugunda Ward in Kieni said the wheelchairs are insufficient for the big number of people who visit the hospital’s outpatient department daily. “Some of these patients may need to be wheeled to the casualty or wards and two wheelchairs are insufficient in a hospital of the county referral status,” he said. He said the chairs should be increased to about ten so that they can serve all patients who may need the services. He said the shortage could be as a result of failure by the county to repair broken down one and not buying new ones. The MCA said the CEC for Health had told the county assembly in a statement that the county has no money to buy more wheelchairs. He said if the county government is to fight the Covid-19 pandemic effectively, then it ought to invest in more wheelchairs. Nderitu said lack of chairs will only prompt people or medical staff to carry their loved ones using their hands, which may spread Coronavirus if the patient is infected. But the governor and his CEC on Friday trashed the MCA's claims saying there are enough wheelchairs at the facility. The CEC for Health said the wards have six wheel chairs, theaters two while the casualty has seven - bringing the total to 15, all which are functional. “We have wheelchairs and emergency beds and I cannot join them to say they are not there because I personally know they are there,” said Governor Kahiga. “Maybe we may say there are never enough but when will you ever have anything that is enough in this world? You only need a wheelchair when a patient cannot walk.”