Five Kakamega MCAs identified as ringleaders of the chaos that rocked the county assembly on May 29 have been suspended from four sittings. The decision was taken during a plenary session chaired by Mumias Nucleus MCA Ricky Omwendo on Wednesday. Boniface Akosi, Farouk Majanje, Water Andati, Absolom Lumbasi and Linda Aseyo were disciplined for disorderly behaviour. They are from ODM and ANC parties. ODM is the majority in the house. Omwendo said the conduct by the five demeaned the assembly, which is designated as the House of honour. They will lose sitting allowances for the four days they have been suspended. Each MCA earns Sh3,900 for every sitting attended. The session discussing a memo by Governor Wycliffe Oparanya rejecting a supplementary budget over shifting of some Sh145 million degenerated into a shouting competition between the minority and majority sides. The minority members accused the governor of turning the assembly into a rubber stamp to validate mistakes by the executive. Deputy Speaker Leonard Soita, who chaired the session, was hit by a bottle of water hurled by an MCA during the heated exchanges. But the suspended members on Thursday termed their suspension as null saying the right procedures were not followed to punish them. They vowed to continue attending sittings as usual. "The deputy speaker ought to have taken disciplinary action on the floor of the house. Now that he missed the opportunity, he should have taken the matter through the House Business Committee in line with the standing orders," Andati said. Manjanje said the move was not procedural and was an afterthought after the assembly leadership consulted the governor. "We know that we are in the final stages of the budget-making process. They want to ensure that some of us are not in the house when the 2020-21 budget is presented in the assembly for debate and approval because they fear being told the truth," he said. “We are waiting for the clerk of the assembly to furnish us with letters suspending us because decisions in the house are not made verbally like a baraza,” he added. But Peter Athiaya, the head of the governor’s press unit, said that the executive had no business in the assembly operations since it’s an independent arm of government. “It would be wrong for anyone to drag the name of the governor into decisions made by the assembly to cover their faces,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori