Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi on Sunday urged residents and law enforcement agencies to work together to prevent further spread of Covid-19. The county has so far recorded nine coronavirus cases. Speaking to journalists outside the Wajir County Referral Hospital, Abdi said the war on the virus would only be won if residents strictly adhered to guidelines set by the World Health Organization and the Ministry of Health. "It is now clear that cases are on the rise. We should, therefore, refrain from travelling out of the county and particularly to Somalia during this pandemic period,” he said. “Let us not allow people who sneaked back to transmit the disease. We can avoid this by immediately reporting them to the Health department and the local administrative structures, so they can be quarantined and tested.” Last week, Governor Abdi said the porous border with Somalia posed the biggest challenge in the fight against coronavirus. The government has closed the border, but residents, who are mostly livestock herders and traders, cross over thereby increasing chances of contracting the virus and infecting others. The government has erected five roadblocks to ensure compliance with directives on the closure of Diff and Dagahley markets. He said security officers working in collaboration with public health officers had intercepted four people who travelled from Somalia through Burhache-Elwak route. They were quarantined at Ogoralle Centre in Tarbaj subcounty. Twenty-eight people have been quarantined in facilities across the subcounties; KMTC in Wajir East (five), Ogoralle in Tarbaj (four), Habaswein in Wajir South (eight), Diff Wajir South (10) and Dadajabula, Wajir South (one). The governor acknowledged the sacrifices made by frontline health staff, chiefs, security agencies, religious leaders, well-wishers and other stakeholders towards the containment of the coronavirus. Health executive Ismail Sheikh Isaac said there was heightened cross-border surveillance. He said the county has created more quarantine border facilities to contain all those crossing in from Somalia. It has also heightened contact tracing and follow-up of all close contacts of confirmed cases to reduce further community transmissions. Edited by A.N