A union has questioned why the Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company acting managing director Nahason Muguna hasn’t been arraigned days after he was arrested. Kenya County Government Workers Union officials termed Muguna’s arrest political, adding that charges were being cooked against him hence the arraignment delays. “They are still cooking the charges. We want to know why Muguna’s arraignment has been delayed,” an official who requested not to be mentioned for fear of repercussions told the Star by phone on Wednesday. The officials accused the National Environment Management Authority of arresting the acting managing director over a national government mandate. “Nema should tell us the parameters that they check before issuing compliance certificates to individuals who want to construct structures not only in Nairobi but the entire county,” the official said. He said it was Nema’s mandate to ensure that investors complied with relevant regulations before they were issued with a certificate. “Is the investor who intends to erect a structure on a particular parcel of land blocking another person’s structure? Is he blocking a waterway, stormwater or riparian land? Where will you discharge waste from the structures you intend to erect?” the official said. The union claimed Muguna’s arrest was malicious since it wasn’t the Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company's mandate to protect Nairobi River from pollution. “Where were they when people were discharging sewerage into Nairobi River?” the official questioned. But Nema chief corporate communications manager Evans Nyabuto said the suspect was likely to be arraigned on Thursday. “His file is with the office of the DPP. He is likely to be arraigned in court tomorrow, Thursday,” Nyabuto said. Muguna was on Monday released from police custody on cash bail after he was arrested at the weekend over what Nema said were environmental regulations violations. Muguna was arrested by officers from Nema and police for allegedly failing to stop raw sewerage from being discharged into Nairobi River on Saturday night. He was nabbed at Rironi police roadblock along Nairobi- Naivasha highway in Limuru at around 8pm on Saturday. Corporate communications manager Nyabuto said the suspect had been detained at Inland Container Deport police station in Embakasi, Nairobi, where he spent the weekend. Nyabuto said Nema had been pursuing the suspect who had violated several orders issued to him by the environmental regulatory authority on environmental violations. He said Muguna spent the weekend in police custody since courts do not work during weekends. “His file has been prepared and is ready. He will be arraigned at Makadara law courts on Monday,” Nyabuto had said earlier. Muguna is said to have ignored the stoppage of raw sewerage discharge into the river by several actors, a situation that had led to pollution. Nyabuto said most sections of Nairobi River are heavily polluted due to the discharge. Nema on Friday closed Hotel Boulevard located along Harry Thuku road in Nairobi for allegedly discharging untreated waste into Nairobi River. The union officials said it wasn’t the NWSCO’s responsibility to upgrade the city’s sewerage system. “The responsibility lies with Athi Water Services Board and not Nairobi Water. We are doing sewerages and maintaining infrastructure. The responsibility of infrastructure construction remains with the national government,” an official said. Edited by Henry Makori