Ousted Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen wants talks with President Uhuru Kenyatta and other leaders to solve the challenges facing Kenyans. “I wish we would put all our cards on the table, have a conversation on how to take the country forward and allow people to ventilate…we will emerge the best democracy in the world,” he told Citizen TV in an interview on Tuesday night. The Senator said he has no one – including the rift in Jubilee, to blame for his removal from the office of Majority leader saying the focus should not be on him but the prevailing issues. “You can’t blame Jubilee family but a few political players driving a wedge between members and leaders of the party,” Murkomen said. The Elgeyo Marakwet Senator, however, maintained that the Jubilee party did not meet the required threshold of 20 to remove him. The lawmaker said the party would have saved itself the drama of his court case had it handled the change of leadership properly. Murkomen said he would have had no problem if those who wanted him out of office asked him to step aside. The lawmaker restated that he was not invited the State House meeting where 20 Senators – some from Kanu and other parties, endorsed his removal. “If the party leader and deputy had called me and said that in the interest of the party, I should give way, we would not have had to go through this drama,” Murkomen said. The Senator was removed alongside Nakuru's Susan Kihika as Majority whip in changes which saw West Pokot's Samuel Poghisio take over. Murang'a Senator Irungu Kang'ata was named Majority whip to be deputized by Nominated Senator Farhiya Ali. On why Deputy President William Ruto did not attend the meeting, Murkomen said the question was best answered by the DP. The Senator held that was not aware of neither the nature of the meeting nor its agenda and only followed the proceedings in media reports. “If there was anyone who invited me or called me to ask that I relinquish my position they should step forward…do you think State House is a place you just walk?” “I was not removed as per the law…only 19 members signed…the threshold was not achieved. However, to try to blame my colleagues and the party when the threshold was not achieved is avoiding the real issues.” The lawmaker revealed Ruto advised him that “every great person must go through fire” when he briefed the DP of the latest developments. “…he gave me an example of what they went through with the president. He said my problem compared with ICC, terrorism, opposition protests are small.” Separately, Incoming Majority leader Samuel Poghisio defended his election saying it was a mark of confidence in his ability to do the work. He hailed Murkomen for doing a great job during his tenure at the post. “He was a strong leader and never let us down. I must congratulate him first. He is a person who holds to his beliefs.” “The process was not controversial. I got the position clearly. I am proud and grateful to the Jubilee party coalition." 