Kenyans suffering from other illnesses have been encouraged to seek treatment in hospitals. Many have opted to self-medicate, fearing they will be put in quarantine as coronavirus suspects if they go to hospitals. The Council of Governors on Wednesday said people should not fear going to hospitals because of the coronavirus. He said counties have put in place precautionary measures, including separation of suspected cases of Covid-19 from other medical cases. Speaking in Kakamega during the eighth CoG briefing on the preparedness of counties for the fight against Covid-19 war, the council's chairman Wycliffe Oparanya said they were concerned that patients of other illnesses were shunning hospitals because of coronavirus stigma. "We wish to encourage members of the public who are unwell to continue visiting our medical facilities to access medical attention to avoid unnecessary deaths at home," Oparanya said. The Kakamega governor warned that shunning hospitals was dangerous and could worsen the conditions of those with chronic illnesses. "Other ailments may take advantage of this pandemic and kill many people if patients don’t seek medical attention in hospitals," he said. He said those on medication should ensure they do not skip scheduled hospital visits. On Tuesday, Bungoma Deputy Governor Ngome Kibanani said they were concerned that residents suffering from other diseases were shunning going to hospitals for fear of being quarantined. He said even those supposed to be attending scheduled clinics for chronic diseases were keeping away from hospitals. "We are calling on our people not to shun hospitals just because they may end up being Covid-19 related symptoms," Kibanani said. Last week, healthcare workers at the Kakamega County Referral Hospital were calling expectant mothers to encourage them to attend antenatal clinics which they have been skipping. Those with underlying medical conditions and who have been collecting their medication from the facilities have opted to buy from chemists. Oparanya who was accompanied by Vihiga Governor Wilber Ottichilo said the county governments continue to face challenges in implementing their programmes due to erratic disbursement of sharable revenue by the National Treasury. He also cited floods among the emerging challenges.  Edited by P.O