Embattled nominated Senator Millicent Omanga is among six applicants who have expressed interest in taking over from Kithure Kindiki as deputy speaker. The senator appeared before Jubilee's disciplinary committe on Wednesday to explain why she failed to attend the Parliamentary Group meeting convened by President Uhuru Kenyatta. She said she did not receive the invite. Other applicants for the deputy speaker position are Margaret Kamar (Uasin Gishu), Charles Kibiru (Kirinyaga), Isaac Mwaura (nominated), Judith Pareno (nominated) and Kilifi's Stewart Madzayo. Lobbying for the vacant seat of Senate Deputy Speaker has intensified ahead of elections on Tuesday next week. Speaker Kenneth Lusaka on Tuesday gazetted the removal of Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki from the position and invited senators interested in the seat to pick nomination papers. “I hereby notify you that the gazette notice has been released for publication today and notify and invite interested senators to submit their nomination papers,” Lusaka said in a communication to the House. He said those interested should pick their nomination papers from the office of the Clerk of the Senate. The announcement came amid intensified negotiations between the Jubilee and NASA on the lucrative seat. Majority Chief Whip Irungu Kang'ata and his Minority counterpart Mutula Kilonzo Jr said negotiations were ongoing but they were keen to avoid direct competition. “It is something that will be agreed upon because the ideal situation would be that Jubilee should have their position. But if they don’t have a candidate, we will field a person for that position. What we will avoid is outright competition,” Mutula said. According to Standing Order No7, a candidate wins the seat of Speaker or Deputy Speaker if he gets two-thirds of the votes. Should one fail to marshal the requisite number of votes in the first round of the voting, candidates with the first and second-highest number of votes will contest in the second round. A candidate who gets the majority of the votes will be declared the winner.