Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen will be adjusting to his new life without millions of shillings and other benefits that come with the office of Senate Majority leader. After the Speaker’s office, the other that is well taken care of is the Majority leader's. Currently, a Majority leader takes home Sh1,056,000 monthly, Sh35,240 above what a Minority leader is entitled to. With the Senate leadership changes effected, the Elgeyo Marakwet senator will take home Sh710,000, just like any other senator, at the end of the month. This will be Sh346,000 less his previous monthly earnings. Murkomen and former Majority whip Susan Kihika (Nakuru) were removed from their influential offices during a Jubilee Senate parliamentary group meeting at State House, Nairobi, on Monday. “I have learnt over time that the moment you take up a position, always prepare for the day you will leave,” Murkomen said on the floor shortly after Speaker Kenneth Lusaka read the changes. Kihika will also lose a number of allowances and privileges, though her Sh710,000 salary will remain intact. The Majority leader, apart from a hefty salary, enjoys a string of allowances and benefits that run into millions. By virtue of the office, Murkomen had three top-range GK vehicles at his disposal. He also had a more lucrative car fuel card and a further Sh300,000 monthly for hospitality. The office is assigned at least five police officers – the number can go up to eight if one puts in a request. Some officers are stationed at the holder's rural home, others at the Nairobi home, while others serve as bodyguards accompanying him on his daily endeavours. This is besides the government-provided driver. The office is well furnished, complete with a legal officer, researcher, media officer, secretaries and a personal assistant, all paid for by the taxpayer. It has up to six extra staffers. Murkomen, whose trouble started after he publicly expressed contrary views to those advanced by the government, will forfeit all these perks as he starts a new life as a regular lawmaker for the next two years. A regular senator – like whips, members of the speaker's panel and committee chairpersons – earns Sh710,000 in monthly salary. Committee chairpersons earn Sh10,000 for every session, while their deputies are entitled to Sh8,000. Members get Sh5,000. Kenyan lawmakers are also entitled to a weekly mileage allowance of Sh109 per kilometre for as many as 750 kilometres per week and a monthly car maintenance allowance of Sh356,525. Murkomen's planned ouster has been on the cards for months after he turned into Uhuru’s number one critic, opposing nearly every move the Executive makes. Just recently, he declared that Parliament is dead and was among the loud voices against national government’s takeover of Nairobi city county, an agreement that was signed in the presence of President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House, Nairobi.