Butali Warriors striker Festus Onyango has said the men’s national team needs proper test matches and high performance training to do better in the upcoming competitions. Onyango, who was Kenya’s top scorer during the Olympic qualifiers last year in South Africa with four goals in the six-nation tournament, said playing against superior opponents will instill belief and experience to the young side. Kenya is set to host the North-East Africa qualifiers for the African Cup of Nations. The former Strathmore captain and a Premier League winner has been a regular in the national team since making his debut in 2016 with 13 cap and eight goals to his name. He was the runner up in the top-scoring charts last season with 12 goals. He also played at the Hockey World League, Accra Ghana 2016 and in the 2017 African Cup of Nations held in Ismailia, Egypt. “We need to test ourselves against quality sides because we never really know how good we are. This can help rectify our weaknesses such as defending penalty corners and game management,” said Onyango. “The likes of Namibia and Zimbabwe have improved because they are having test matches against good teams from South Africa. They gain experience irrespective of the result.” “In contrast, we only play against weakened Premier League club,,” said the 2013 silver medalist at both nationals and East Africa school games with Maseno School. “High performance training involves different departments training separately before being subjected to match situations. It also entails the right basics and playing at high intensity,” he said. In the meantime, the 2015  Kenya Universities Sports Association KUSA top scorer has urged former players and club coaches to share ideas that can help spur the national team to the next level. “Our coaches need to work together. The appointed head coach should involve the rest of the coaching fraternity. For example, South Africa and Egypt have more than six technical officials, they are therefore able to analyse matches better from different angles,” said Onyango.