The government has been asked to include private security guards among the beneficiaries of Covid-19 allowances. The Kenya National Private Security Workers’ Union secretary-general Isaac Andabwa said Thursday that guards have been given extra duties of receiving patients in hospitals and those accessing various institutions. This, according to Adabwa, is besides their primary mandate of protecting properties and offering complimenting security services. He said private security guards were neglected and discriminated against in spite of their contribution to the fight against Covid-19. They take temperatures of visitors to the institutions they guard. “We have been demanding that private security should be professionalised. But even before that, we have been given additional roles as health workers. And we have been given this duty without prior training,” the unionist told the media in Nairobi. He urged the government to allocate some allowance for the guards involved in combating the coronavirus. Andabwa said security boxes in Nairobi, Eldoret, Kisumu and other towns had been converted into triages for checking patient temperatures. “We are not asking the government to budget for us; we only want it to enforce the minimum wage policy is adhered to for the guards to afford basic needs. We cannot afford alcoholic sanitisers. The most effective way according to the MoH is washing hands with water and soap regularly. That is okay with us,” he said. He commended the Health Ministry for a job well done, except for ignoring guards. “The guards have been gazetted as essential services providers but have been left out of all the allowances set aside for those helping government in fighting Covid-19. Guards are the ones checking patients' temperatures before they allowed into the consultation rooms to see doctors.” He complained that guards returned to their homes daily without anybody caring about their medical condition. “Why the discrimination yet we are working in a similar environment with health workers. Guards are also helping the government to fight coronavirus,”Adambwa said. “The government should enforce the minimum wage and ensure compliance by all employers so that guards get better pay to afford water and soap,” he said.   - mwaniki fm