Kenyans will have to wait until after the current Covid-19 pandemic is contained to know if they were ripped off in the controversial Sh63 billion medical kits deal. The Senate ad hoc committee investigating the Managed Equipment Scheme (MES) said the pandemic has grounded its progress. The committee chaired by Isiolo Senator Fatuma Dullo has been probing the programme for nearly a year now. On Wednesday, the Star established that it will take longer for the report to be released as a key witness who is supposed to travel to the country to explain the contract is yet to do so because of the travel restrictions. Former Health CS Cleopa Mailu, under whose tenure the project’s contracts were varied and the amount increased from Sh39 billion to Sh63 billion, is stuck in Geneva, Switzerland, where he is ambassador. “The variations of the contracts, which escalated the projects cost by almost double, were done under his watch.  He is yet to be interrogated. By the time corona hit the country he was slated to come as a witness but now he is unable because of coronavirus,” committee vice chairman Moses Wetang'ula (Bungoma) said. The committee was formed last September to investigate the controversies that surrounded the deal. It was initially given 45 days to table a report but sought an extension after they were unable to interview all the witnesses. The team still did not release the report even after the extended period. It sought two other extensions with the latest one of 30 days being granted in March. This too has elapsed. Mailu is the only remaining witness to be grilled in relation to the deal that was signed in 2015 at State House, Nairobi. The initial contract involved leasing assorted medical equipment to select public health facilities across the 47 counties for a period of seven years at Sh39 billion. This implied that every country paid about Sh97 million per year. However, the contract was varied along the way and the contract sum increased to Sh63 billion or Sh200 million per county per year. The project has caused an uproar, with governors terming the deal a rip-off of the taxpayer. The county bosses have claimed they were coerced and intimidated to sign an MoU that sanctioned the deal. On Wednesday, Wetang'ula disclosed the committee was riding on Speaker Kenneth Lusaka’s ruling that relaxed timing of tabling of reports after the coronavirus outbreak. He explained that the committee could not hold a virtual meeting with Mailu because of the huge documents they need to interrogate. “We have involved the Speaker such that it cannot be that members just sit online and discuss it because we have to go through all those documents and crosscheck with everything that we have recorded before we make a reasonable and reasoned report,” he said. He added, “When coronavirus hit the country, the Speaker communicated that the clock stopped ticking on many issues. So we are not worried about the 30 days extension because even the partial closure has affected time-bound committee work.” Minority Chief Whip Mutula Kilonzo Jr (Makueni), Samson Cherargei (Nandi) and Isaac Mwaura (nominated) cited the huge and tedious work the committee had. “The work was not easy but the committee has been in constant communication with the House and were it for the coronavirus, they should have tabled a report,” Mutula said. Charargei and Mwaura said the project was major rip-off that required enough time to be properly interrogated. “The committee has done great work. It is a matter to of time before they do so (table report). There are serious entrenched interests milking the country dry thus making the scheme more than double its initial budget,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori