Reigning National Boxing League champions  Police ‘Chafua Chafua’ have expressed optimism over their intended title defence despite making no changes to their outfit in 2020. Assistant coach John Waweru, who is also the Boxing Federation of Kenya (BFK) competition secretary,  said the team remains intact as there are no new names recruited to the police service. Traditionally, boxers joining the Chafua Chafua team undergo the mandatory Police training at Kiganjo College,  after which they return to take up their intended weight divisions. “We still have a strong squad of boxers and I believe they have what it takes to perform well. Standards have been set and only the sky’s the limit for us. The same boxers who played for us last season are the same ones who we will be using.” Waweru, a nephew to former Kenyan international Patrick ‘Mont’ Waweru, said. “Boxers are undergoing light training on their own due to the current coronavirus situation. We are looking forward to more legs of the league and more action hoping the pandemic will be contained in time. But for now, we can only cross fingers, going by the government’s directive on public gatherings. In each weight division, we have two boxers—meaning there as back-up in case of an injury. The reserve boxers will also be sparring partners but selection for events will purely be based on merit,” Waweru added. David Munuhe, also the BFK secretary-general, is the current Police coach and he is being assisted by George ‘Forman’ Onyango and Waweru. Martin Maina and Isaa Mwangi are the light flyweight duo while in the light fly, Shaffi Bakari is the first choice boxer, where he is with George Wainaina. Bakari has since moved up to flyweight ostensibly to conform with the new Olympic Games rule which had faced out his light-flyweight. Bakari was the best-ranked Kenyan at All African Games, in the Rabat, Morocco where he scooped silver. He,  however, lost in his bid for a maiden Olympic Games slot in the African qualification tournament in Dakar, Senegal. Bantamweight’s best bet for Police is Martin Oduor who is with Kingston Otieno while Kenya international Ethan Maina is the mainstay in lightweight alongside reserve Simon Ngotho. Veteran light-welter Joseph Shigali is expected to remain on the summit with Peter Njogu in reserve. International welter-weight Boniface Mugunde retains his position with Stanley Muchiri as his reserve. Middleweight George Cosby, formerly a Kisumu boxer, is expected to be back, bigger and stronger after failing to make the Dakar team. Despite winning a bronze in Rabat, Cosby lost his middleweight slot to Rayton Okwiri in Dakar squad. Cosby is in the division with Victor Onyango. “Cosby tops the list of upcoming boxers. He is a true star for the future and already has the Rabat bronze under his belt,” said coach Munuhe. Humphrey Ochieng “Jakababa” is the first choice at light heavy division with David Njuguna in the reserve list. Heavyweight Elly Ajowi retains his position with Joseph Kimani as his reserve. Super heavy Tobias Okeyo will be with Frank Onyango.