The Wajir county government has announced it will enhance  preventive strategies to stop the spread of coronavirus following confirmation of the first case on Thursday. The 36-year-old Kenyan man from Garissa county was  intercepted at Diif in Wajir South subcounty along with three other persons on their way back from a livestock trade trip to Mogadishu, Somalia. Tests were carried out on six people in quarantine at the Wajir KMTC and one was found positive. Speaking to the press outside his office on Friday, Governor Mohamed Abdi said the patient was asymptomatic and in stable condition. “It is imperative that we now contain the disease in Diif and prevent further spread. Towards this, together with the county commissioner who is my co-chair of the response team, we have directed lockdown of Diif for an initial period of 14 days effective Sunday, May 3, 2020 at 6am,” Abdi said. “We must therefore enforce infection prevention measures and consequently have suspended outpatient services at Wajir County Referral Hospital,” he said. The governor said more staff and drugs supplies would be provided in all health centres and dispensaries in Wajir town to accommodate the upsurge in service seekers. He further announced closure of Diff and Dagahley livestock markets effective from Sunday at 6am. The governor who was accompanied by senior national and county staff, among  them county commissioner Jacob Narengo, however, said  vehicles with food supplies are allowed to continue operating in line with the existing national guidelines. The governor pleaded with the public and social media platforms to be sensitive to the patient under treatment for coronavirus, health care workers offering care and stop stigmatising and traumatising their families. He said the tracing of persons who may have come into contact with the patient and those in quarantine is ongoing and urged them to cooperate with the surveillance team. Abdi further urged members of the public not to panic but instead be vigilant and report any suspected cases detected. “Let us continue with prayers during this Holy Month of Ramadhan and keep on embracing the recommended social distance, washing hands frequently with soap or sanitiser, wearing face masks in public gatherings and staying at home,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori