A former Kenya Forestry Research Institute executive director has failed to stop his termination at the Court of Appeal. The High Court had established that Ben Chikamai was illegally in office in 2018 and ordered that he should vacate the office and an acting director be appointed. Peter Muigai had in 2015 gone to court challenging Chikamai's reappointment for a third term. The court not only found that Chikamai was illegally in office but that the Environment Cabinet Secretary failed to ensure proper appointment of Kefri’s CEO since the parastataI had no board at the time. Aggrieved, the former Forestry research boss moved to the Court of Appeal challenging the lower court's ruling. In their determination, judges William Ouko, W. Karanja and Sankale ole Kantai said they were constrained to rule that there was no board of directors at the time. “Other than for this finding on the reconstitution of the board, which was inconsequential as far as the impugned reappointment of the appellant was concerned, we have said enough to demonstrate that this appeal is for dismissal. The same is dismissed,” they ruled. Chikamai was appointed Kefri chief executive on May 1, 2009, for a renewable (once) term of three years. He was re-appointed for his second and final term on May 1, 2012. This was to expire on April 30, 2015. The court was told that his appointment was guided by a circular from Secretary to the Cabinet and Head of Public Service Francis Muthaura that set out the procedure and guidelines for re-appointment of state corporations' CEOs. Chikamai requested for re-appointment for the third term and the Environment CS approved "following a review and evaluation of his performance." The third term was to take effect from May 1, 2015, and the same was communicated vide a letter dated April 10, 2015. However, Muigai moved to court and filed a petition on grounds that Chikamai’s re-appointment was unlawful and in violation of the Code of Conduct for State Corporations (Mwongozo) requiring that chief executive officers of state corporations serve a maximum of two terms of three years each. Muigai noted that the term of office of the Kefri board expired in 2015. As such Chikamai made management decisions which were irregular since there was no board to approve them. He maintained that during Chikamai's third term, there had been alleged cases of embezzlement of funds, nepotism, favouritism, corruption and breach of procurement laws. He contested the former CEO's argument that his re-appointment was within the ambit of the then applicable laws and that Mwongozo was not in force during the re-appointment. Chikamai had further argued that the documentary evidence produced to support the allegations that Kefri had no existing board after its term expired in 2015 had no evidentiary basis.   - mwaniki fm