The High Court has set free a woman charged with killing her brother and hiding his body in a thicket over a land dispute. The court sitting in Machakos acquitted Susan Nduku Kitulya after the prosecution failed to prove its case. Nduku was charged with the offence of murdering James Muia on the night of August 11 and 12, 2015, at Mungala sublocation, Mumbuni location within Machakos county. She denied the charges and the case proceeded to a full trial. Court documents showed the accused was away from home until a few months to the incident when she resurfaced. Muia then introduced his sister to members of his family. “There seems to have arisen a land dispute between the accused and the deceased arising from an alleged sale of the family land by the deceased,” court papers read. The dispute, however, seemed to have been resolved by the area assistant chief. Witness Lucy Wambua said she saw the deceased carry a carton from his house before he entered his sister’s house. Minutes later, Wambua saw the accused leave her house carrying a cement bag which she dropped into a latrine. The next morning a contractor came across the corpse whose head was covered in a nylon paper bag. Visible head injuries were noticed upon removal of the paper bag. In Nduku’s house, a blood-stained stick was found. There were bloodstains in the sitting room, bedroom and outside the house. Blood was also found in a sufuria, on clothes and on the walls. Investigators also found a blood-stained cement bag in the toilet. “In the house, there were three blood-stained cooking pans on the floor, two nylon blood-stained bags and a blood-stained red top. Outside in the toilet, they recovered two blood-stained sacks inside.” An autopsy showed Muia died from a head injury that was caused by a blunt force trauma. Presiding judge George Odunga said the prosecution was unable to prove how Nduku murdered Muia. “I find the accused person not guilty of the offence with which she is charged. She is accordingly acquitted and I direct that she be set at liberty forthwith unless otherwise lawfully held,” Odunga ruled.  Edited by P.O