Three Cabinet Secretaries have been summoned to explain the eviction of more than 7,000 families in Nairobi’s Kariobangi North which were termed as inhumane. Fred Matiang’i (Interior), Sicily Kariuki (Water) and Farida Karoney (Lands) were to appear before the Senate Lands and Environment Committee on Monday to explain the circumstances that led to the evictions. The committee had invited the three alongside Nairobi Metropolitan Services director general Mohamed Badi to a meeting on Sunday but they all skipped. The meeting followed a petition by city Senator Johnson Sakaja who demanded answers over the evictions that left thousands of families homeless. Chairman Mwangi Githiomi (Nyandarua) said Matiang’i and Karoney had requested to appear on a later date as they were still "waiting for crucial information" on the evictions. The CSs had also visited the site of the eviction to distribute relief food to the affected families. “They said they are supposed to be going to Kariobangi to provide food relief and, also, there is important information they are looking for,” Githiomi told the members. The demolitions were carried out by the Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company to reclaim the land where the families have been living since 2008. The parcel was allegedly grabbed from the Dandora Estate Waste Sewerage Treatment Plant. However, the evictions triggered a public uproar with the government coming under fire for carrying out evictions when the country is battling the Covid-19 pandemic. In the Senate, the lawmakers were up in arms, demanding compensation for all the affected families. They accused the government of engaging in impunity and demanded a proper plan for the people who lost their homes and other properties in the demolitions. “It is completely incomprehensive why a government would [demolish buildings] when the country is facing a pandemic and citizens are being urged to stay at home. The government is contravening its own guidelines,” Sakaja said when he sought the statement on the floor. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr accused the government of violating human rights despite being elected by the same people. “Sometimes it is wrong with how this government treats human beings. What is happening in Nairobi, particularly the evictions, is a violation of human rights,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie