We must deny Kanu another 41 years of our lives, former Chief justice Willy Mutunga has warned. Mutunga was responding to a cartoon by Gado who Drew a picture of a politician and captioned it "Kanu will rule for 100 years." "Only 59 years of pain, tears, deaths, poverty, oppression, sweat, and suffering," Mutunga said on Wednesday. "Enough surely must be enough... We must deny them the other 41 years." The former Chief Justice was reacting after the Jubilee Party led by President Uhuru Kenyatta signed a new political deal with Kanu. This was after a post-election coalition pact signed last week that saw Senators Kipchumba Murkomen and Susan Kihika replaced as Majority Leader and Chief Whip respectively in the senate. Mutunga's comment drew a reaction from Lawyer Ahmednasir Abdullahi who said the 41 years will not be consensual. "CJ when you say "we must deny them the other 41 years" you imply their loading over the rest of Kenyans is consensual...it has never been, and the other 41 years will not be...," he said. Allies of the Deputy President William Ruto on Tuesday morning moved to court to challenge the new political deal. The case challenging the post-election coalition pact signed last week on Friday was filed by Hillary Kosgei. At the same time, Jubilee Party deputy secretary-general Caleb Kositany delivered a protest letter to the Registrar of Political Parties Ann Nderitu. The Soy constituency MP told Nderitu that the coalition agreement is “null and void” since it was not in line with the JP constitution and the Political Parties Act. The Political Parties Dispute Tribunal has issued interim orders stopping the Jubilee Party from executing its coalition agreement with Kanu. After an appeal by the Jubilee Party Deputy Secretary-General Caleb Kositany, Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika, and the National Assembly Majority Chief Whip Benjamin Washiali, the tribunal ruled that matter be certified as urgent. "In the interest of justice an interim order be and is hereby issued declaring that any decision or action founded on the coalition agreement purportedly signed by the two parties and deposited on May 4 is null, void and has no effect," the ruling read in part.