A youthful lecturer from a private university within Nairobi county who has a penchant for college girls has reportedly run broke.  Those in the know say the man is unable to service his daily needs after several college girls he has been cohabiting with swindled him out of cash. The man has now resorted to harassing anyone who has his debts to pay him. Recently, he shocked several individuals after he demanded a return of shs 10,000 he used to buy for them tea during a past meeting. The man who used to brag to all and sundry of how close he is to ODM leader Raila Odinga-has now been shunned. The move by Nairobi governor Mike Sonko to start reversing the takeover of some functions by the national government has left two senior government officials and a businessman a punctured lot. Reason? A mole a told corridors that the three men had position themselves to enrich themselves with key public resources that are part of the deed signed by the two levels of governments. It is said that they are salivating for some undeveloped pieces of land scattered within parts of the city. And with the governor saying he will move to court to reverse the decision, the highly connected individuals are now said to be behind some of the political threats on how they plan to deal with Sonko. As President Uhuru Kenyatta was on Friday assuring Kenyans there will be audit of all monies that will have been spend on combating Covid-19, it is not clear if the names of the private companies that has supplied Personal Protective Equipment will be made public. A small bird has told corridors that at least three companies owned by powerful and highly connected businessmen and a sitting MP are some of the individuals who have a made a kill out of the pandemic. A group of the businessmen are said to have met two weeks ago at a home of a politician at a home within Nairobi’s Hurligham area. Is an MP from Rift Valley contemplating quitting politics come 2022 general election? Word within the political cycles say the man is day by day giving up his interests in politics as his prospects for a better future in leadership are diminishing. His key connection that has in the previous election propelled him to good chances of winning election will not be there in 2022 and the man is understood to be worried that he will be embarrassed should he offer his candidature for a higher office  despite his huge financial muscle that always give him a head start in his campaigns.