Kenya's award-winning afro-pop band Sauti Sol is set to drop their new single, 'Insecure', on May 22. Sauti Sol has partnered with Radio Africa Group on the release of the single in preparation for their 5th album 'Midnight Train' launch on June 5. Fans can catch the release of the new song exclusively on Classic 105, Smooth FM, Kiss 100, Radio Jambo and Homeboyz Radio on Friday morning. 'Suzanna', the first single off the upcoming album, was released on February 6 taking the music scene by storm. It has so far attracted over nine million views on YouTube. The second single, 'Brighter Days', which was released on April 17 has over 1.2 million views on YouTube. Sauti Sol says that the release of 'Insecure' is in line with their commitment to "to brighten up these times of gloom and doom with music." They say that the current situation of regional containment, national curfew, social distancing guidelines and a ban on international travel has crippled their business as entertainers. "It has forced us to not only postpone and/or cancel all local and international performances but also to isolate at a time we need to be together preparing for the launch and eventual performance and touring of our new album," the group said. They added; "It is the expectation of our fans and stakeholders that we launch this album with a concert/performance regardless of the circumstances." Following consultations with the Ministry of Health, Sauti Sol has undertaken to self-isolate as a band together with a film crew of five. This is in order to rehearse the album, shoot album launch content, prepare for an album launch concert and finally shoot the album launch concert. Radio Africa Group will be walking together with Sauti Sol on this journey to ensure that their fans across the world receive this music from the comfort of their homes. The Radio Africa Group is thrilled to be headling this song as part of its vision and long-standing mission to support outstanding talent in Kenya. Sauti Sol and Radio Africa Group have a long and warm relationship that spans well over five years.