An alert Embu matatu driver has been rewarded for exposing two passengers he had overheard telling relatives how they had escaped from Kilifi, one of the five counties regarded as coronavirus hotspots. Samson Kariuki of Neno Sacco had last Friday picked the passengers in Kitui (he is assigned the Embu-Kitui route), who excitedly called their relatives in Meru with the news that they were on the way home after fleeing Kilifi. The escapees had spent the previous night at Kibwezi en route to Kitui town where they boarded the Embu-bound matatu. On arrival in Embu town, a worried Kariuki reported to Neno officials what he had heard. The officials promptly informed the police who on arrival rounded up the passengers and took them to an isolation facility. For this, Kariuki was on Wednesday rewarded with Sh10,000 and various food items. But he was not present to receive the items from Embu County Commissioner Abdullahi Galgalo. The cash and food were received by his wife, Catherine Gitiiri, since Kariuki was also isolated to be tested for Covid-19 alongside his eight passengers. They will be in quarantine for 14 days. The 14-seat matatu can only carry a maximum of eight passengers as per the Ministry of Health directive on safe distancing due to the coronavirus pandemic. Galgalo commended Kariuki for his alertness and heroic decision. The administrator said the exposure had saved many people who would have been infected if the passengers fleeing Kilifi turn positive. He said 16 others who had come into contact with the eight travellers were tracked down and quarantined. Only three of them are from Embu. The rest are from Meru. Embu is one of the counties that are yet to report a Covid-19 case. Gitiiri was appreciative of her husband's decision to expose the runaways. She is optimistic that Kariuki will test negative of the disease that had by Tuesday affected 715 people and killed 36 others. Galgalo praised Embu residents for their resilience and alertness, citing a recent case involving four buses headed to Embu from Mombasa which were forced to go back. He urged the public to continue observing anti-coronavirus regulations laid down by the Ministry of Health. - mwaniki fm 