JUST WHERE IS former Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri? The former Laikipia East MP and prolific Kikuyu orator had indicated that his exit from the Cabinet did not bring his political career to an end. In fact, he fired a warning salvo to his critics: "For every action, there would be a reaction". However, after making well-calculated appearances after his sacking by President Uhuru Kenyatta, little is now known about his activities. Some Mt Kenya politicos were heard dismissing Kiunjuri's threats as empty. They claimed that with the President increasingly getting aggressive, those unwilling to toe the political line will easily be swept aside. **** HOURS AFTER ELGEYO Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen was removed as Leader of Majority in the Senate, a senior Jubilee operative allied to President Uhuru Kenyatta tossed a glass of champagne with friends and other legislators at one of his palatial homes along Thika Road. The official, who has fervently pushed for Murkomen's ouster, held what looked like a celebration party on Tuesday afternoon as Murkomen savoured in his former glory at the Senate. A small bird told Corridors that about 20 political operatives and sitting lawmakers were hosted in the brief party that lasted about two hours. It was indeed a much-needed relief for the politician even as more political intrigues unfold in the Jubilee Party ahead of the 2022 succession duel. ***** A SENIOR OFFICIAL at the Kenya Ports Authority has panicked following the arrest and prosecution of the agency's top finance manager over fraud. Reason? The official, who is loved and loathed in equal measure by staff, has been receiving massive M-Pesa transactions from a graft suspect. While the money received cannot be condemned to be proceeds of graft, the fear that the anti-graft authorities could soon seek his statement over the receipt of the huge amounts has sent shock waves down the officer's spine. It is claimed that the official has been a target of the anti-graft sleuths poring through hundreds of files related to suspicious transactions. Has the officer's goose been finally cooked? **** A POLITICAL PLAYER in the football management of the country and who is laying the ground for a stab at the top leadership of soccer is under siege. Auctioneers could soon be putting his lavish apartment in Karen under the hammer following a defaulted financial facility from a bank. The sale of the property at a time he is scheming to take over the football management in an expensive venture could puncture his ambition. While he is known to be wealthy, Corridors of Power is also aware he sold his other property in Embakasi recently to build a financial war-chest to run for the powerful football office.