 Nyatike MP Tom Odege and flood victims in the constituency have accused the government of hoarding relief food and diverting it to less needy areas. With heavy rains pounding the country since October last year, over 600 families have been displaced without any relief food. “We have been getting promises that relief food was to come to residents,” Odege told the Star on the phone yesterday. "Last week we were shocked when food destined for Nyatike was diverted to nearby Uriri constituency, where the effect of floods is not severe." The affected families are in Kabuto, Modi, Angugo, Sagama, Nyora, Ageng’a and Lwanda Konyango. On Sunday when the Star visited the constituency, several families were camping at Angugo Pefa church and other institutions. Water has engulfed regions, washing away farms, livestock and marooning homes. “The government, through the relevant ministry, has chosen to play politics in issuing relief food to undermine leaders in the constituency by hoarding food,” Odege said. He said since August last year, leaders from the constituency have been camping at the ministry to get food aid for flood victims to no avail. The MP said it is sad that delays and hoarding of food by the government are masterminded by his rivals to sabotage him politically on the ground. “We can't have several families suffering, while leaders in Migori choose to play politics with their plight,” he said. At Angugo Pefa church, pastor John Oboo and Nyumba Kumi elder mama Susana Ajwang’ said over 200 families have been camping at the facilities and they have been suffering as politics has embroiled their calls for relief. “We have innocent families who are marooned and their livelihoods are at stake. We need leaders to put aside politics to help those affected,” Ong’onde said. Ajwang’ said residents are waiting for relief food to reach affected families and were shocked when it was diverted at the last minute to other places. She said when electorates head to the ballot, they vote for development and not to offer leaders a platform to fight. But speaking over the phone, Nyatike DCC Solomon Komen denied the claims. He said the food that went to Uriri was not diverted but distributed according to government directives, and there is no need to see politics in it. He said Nyatike is still waiting for relief food from the national government, which he said will come “in due course as data of those affected and areas have already been mapped out”. “We already shared 84 bags of relief food and gave a Sh5,400 cash transfer to cushion over 400 families in affected areas. More food is in the pipeline,” Komen said. He called on politicians to avoid using the plight of Kenyans to pass their agenda.