Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula has revealed that Ford Kenya and ANC parties have teamed up to push for the unity of western region. Wetang’ula said the two parties have formed a committee to discuss how the elusive Luhya unity could be achieved ahead of 2022 elections. The Ford-K leader said he is working closely with his ANC counterpart Musalia Mudavadi and other leaders from the community to unite their backyard. In an interview with Vuuka FM, Wetang’ula said the community in western will speak with one voice come the next general election. Wetang’ula announced this four days after holding a three-hour meeting with Mudavadi at the Musalia Mudavadi Centre in Nairobi. “A few days ago, I met Musalia for three hours. We were not meeting to look at each other but for a serious discussion that will save our people,” he said. He added that there in progress in uniting the Luhya community, hinting that the two parties could merge. “What is killing Luhyas is that we don't keep secrets. As a community we need to start planning our things behind the curtain,” he said. The senator said more details will emerged later as political formations in Kenya come in the last year of elections. “Musalia and I are looking for what William Ruto and others are looking for,” he noted. He regretted that there are leaders from western region who are fighting efforts to unite the community. “We have some of our own who don’t want us to unite because their personal interests are tied up elsewhere but we can't bow down,” he vowed. Even as they push for Luhya unity, Mudavadi has indicated that he is not considering stepping down for anyone in the 2022 elections. The ANC leader has maintained that he will be among the 2022 presidential candidates. In the last few weeks, he has been a busy man hosting politicians, some seen as allies of Deputy President William Ruto. The politicians he has hosted include Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa, Webuye West MP Daniel Wanyama, Sakwa Bunyasi (Nambale), Ayub Savula (ANC, Nominated), Petronila Were (nominated senator), Tindi Mwale(Butere) and Christopher Aseka ( Kwisero). Others are Sirisia MP John Waluke, Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago and Kiambu Senator Kimani Wamatangi. Edited by EKibii