Taita Taveta county is set to benefit from the Economic Stimulus Programme that aims at reviving the economy post-Covid-19 pandemic, county commissioner Rodah Onyancha has said. The programme launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta last week seeks to support communities and key sectors of the economy and cushion them against the harsh economic effects of Covid-19 and floods. Onyancha said the county’s economy has been adversely affected by the various directives put in place to contain the spread of the virus, including the dusk to dawn curfew and cessation of movement. “Through the programme, the county shall benefit from rehabilitation of roads, footbridges and other infrastructure destroyed by heavy rains. Hundreds of local youth in our subcounties will be hired to provide labour during the repair works of these roads,” Onyancha said during a press briefing at her Mwatate office on Wednesday. She said the vulnerable in the county are still receiving financial support from the government. They include the elderly, people living with disability, orphans and vulnerable children. She said Sh94.7 million has been disbursed this year in the county. “Out of this, Sh30 million has been disbursed to 3,755 households for orphans and vulnerable children, with each receiving Sh8,000,” the administrator said. Further, Sh61.9 million has been disbursed to 7,745 persons under the cash transfer programme for the elderly. Additionally, Sh2.7 million has been disbursed to 339 persons with severe disabilities. To support education at the national level, the government has set set aside Sh6.5 billion for hiring 10,000 teachers and 1,000 ICT interns to support digital learning. The county commissioner added that Taita Taveta has reported a shortage of teachers and the opportunity will help reduce the deficit. “We are calling upon our primary and secondary graduate teachers to apply for these jobs once they are advertised,” Onyancha said. SMEs and the juakali sector, which employ hundreds of youths in the county, will also benefit from making of desks for use in schools. The government further targets to engage youths in making over 250,000 locally fabricated desks for learners. Farmers will also get help to ensure food security, improve the nutritional levels and maintain regular flow of food in markets. Onyancha said, “Through the e-voucher programme, our farmers will be able to get the farm inputs they require for their farming activities from identified merchants”. Hundreds of farmers in the county depend on vegetable and fruit farming for livelihoods. The county serves as the food basket for Coast region. The government also intends to revive the tourism sector by giving  soft loans through the Tourism Finance Corporation. The sector has suffered greatly due to stoppage of international flights, curfews and cessation of movement. Taita Taveta is renowned for her spectacular tourism in the expansive Tsavo East and West National Parks. However, due to Covid-19, many hotels have suffered heavy losses, while others have closed down.  Most local workers in the hotel industry have consequently been rendered jobless. In the government’s effort to revive the sector, youths in the county will be hired as local community scouts to complement Kenya Wildlife Service efforts in protecting the wildlife and enhancing conservation. The government has set aside Sh1 billion to engage 5,500 community scouts in this programme. Edited by E.Kibii