At least 600 families have been displaced in Lamu after their homes were swept away by floods currently ravaging parts of the region. This follows the bursting of the banks of rivers Tana and Nyongoro owing to ongoing heavy rains. The most affected areas are those inhabited by pastoralist communities in Chalaluma, Dide Waride and Moa villages in Witu division of Lamu West. At least 87 houses had been submerged in Chalaluma, Moa (70) and Dide Waride (56) by Tuesday morning. Other affected areas in Lamu are Mkunumbi, Hongwe, Marafa, Jericho, Jipendeni, Salama, Lumshi, Zebra, Juhudi, Sinambio, Mavuno and Amkeni, among others. According to the Red Cross Lamu branch, at least 445 families had been displaced by Tuesday evening. Lamu Red Cross coordinator Kauthar Alwy said a team had already been dispatched to assess the real situation on the ground to determine the exact number of victims requiring aid. “We are currently trying to find out the exact number because we know the figures keep growing by the day. The number will be higher by the end of the week. After the assessment, we will know how to go about helping them,” Alwy said. The flood victims are appealing for government intervention to enable them to find temporary shelters, food and medicine until the floods subside. Most roads have been rendered impassable by the floods and the villages can only be accessed via boat or chopper. The floodwaters have swept toilets and sewers directly into rivers and other water sources posing a serious health risk. Affected families are staying with family and friends while those worse off have to make do with temporary makeshifts. The families are now staring at starvation after their food stores and farm crops were swept away by the floods. Commenting on the matter, county commissioner Irungu Macharia said his office was coordinating with the Kenya Red Cross to ensure those affected receive the necessary help. “Together with other relief agencies, we’re exploring what support to give the affected families. In fact, an assessment has been done. We’ve also requisitioned for relief food items to be distributed to the affected families,” Macharia said. He, however, advised residents residing in low-lying areas to move to safer areas. “This habit where people refuse to heed to calls asking them to move to safety before the danger befalls them must stop. Let’s learn to listen and exercise caution,” he said. Edited by R.Wamochie