Six out of 10 workers have been laid off by North Rift firms in the last three months, a study by Moi University and the chamber of commerce shows. The researchers estimate that 60 per cent, or more than 170,000 workers in the eight North Rift Economic Bloc counties have been affected because of the coronavirus pandemic. The worst-hit sector is the hospitality industry which is operating at 25 per cent of its usual potential. The transport sector is operating at 50 per cent and other businesses at 75 per cent of capacity. Charles Lagat, Moi University director of international relations and officials of the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry presented the findings to Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago. The report recommends a reduction of taxes and levies to cushion businesses from collapse as the coronavirus pandemic crisis prolongs. Governor Mandago asked the educational institutions and KNCCI to establish a Covid- 19 economic recovery committee to work with counties to prop the economy of the region. “This is where we really need to work together and come up with homegrown solutions to the challenges we are facing as a region and as a country in relation to Covid-19,” Mandago said. The county chief called on academic institutions to research on and publish solutions to socio-economic challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. Mandago spoke at the county headquarters in Eldoret when he received the findings of the study. Also present to during the presentation were Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno, Trade and Industrialisation CEC Emily Kogos, Evelyn Rotich (Health CEC) and county secretary Edwin Bett. The research, conducted in April, showed that small and micro-economic enterprises in the region had been severely affected. Many would collapse unless an intervention to cushion them was made, the study found. Noreb counties have agreed to work on a joint economic recovery plan to restore normalcy once the fight against the coronavirus is concluded. The governors said during their seventh consultative forum that Covid-19 will have a far-reaching impact on the lives of Kenyans. There is a need to put in place a recovery strategy as the fight against the virus continues, they said. Mandago said they would work with collaborating partners to mobilise donors to provide support focused on an economic recovery strategy.  (edited by o. owino)