More than 90 per cent of people living with HIV-Aids have stopped receiving medication from the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital, Eldoret, because of floods and Covid-19 fears. They are usually handled at the Ampath programme. Programme director Sylvester Kimaiyo said only about 10 per cent of the 164,000 ARV beneficiaries from 10 counties still visit the facility. Some of them have not visited for two months. Dr Kimaiyo appealed to them not to be scared of seeking medication because of coronavirus fears, adding that measures have put in place measures to stop the spread of Covid-19. Kimaiyo said they had received sanitation equipment from Eldoret Grain Millers to ensure the safety of patients and medics. “Moi Referral Hospital is a Covid-19 testing and treatment centre and with the help of well-wishers like Eldoret Grain Millers, we have been able to instal sanitising booth at our facilities to ensure patients and staff are safe from possible infection," he said. Eldoret Grain Millers human resource manager Awath Jamal handed over the sanitising booth to Kimaiyo at the AMPATH facility. The company has donated similar booths to  Webuye Level 5 and Busia County hospitals. The facility handles people from Uasin Gishu, Nandi, Trans Nzoia, Elgeyo Marakwet, Baringo, Kakamega, Bungoma and Busia, among other counties. Most of them are said to be facing many challenges, including a shortage of food, that complicate their health. Dr Kimaiyo, however, said the hospital was communicating with them through other means in efforts to mitigate the situation and ensure they continue to receive the necessary support. At the same time, hospitals in most counties are experiencing a rapid drop in the use of maternity deliveries and other medical services because of the fear of coronavirus infection. Governors in the North Rift, led by Jackson Mandago of Uasin Gishu, have expressed concern that many mothers are delivering at home, hence risking their lives and those of their newborns. Mandago said Kenyans should continue using the health facilities, noting that they have been equipped with PPEs. Uasin Gishu has so far sensitised more than 70,000 households on the measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The county assembly also formed an ad hoc committee to oversee the measures being enforced by the county executive to control the virus. Committee chairman Patrick Bundotich said the response committee has carried out door-to-door sensitisation. The county has recorded one case of the virus. Edited by R.Wamochie