Jubilee Party troubles began after the handshake between ODM leader Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta, secretary general Raphael Tuju has said. Tuju told a morning talk show that people opposed the truce between Uhuru and Raila had orchestrated the current infighting in the party. The anti-handshake team, he said, have regrouped and are now rocking the Jubilee ship from within. “Some people in Jubilee feared that bringing more people on board will make them irrelevant and lose their space. But we must unite the country to avert chaos that follows each and every election,” Tuju said. Deputy President William Ruto and his men believe the Uhuru wing teamed up with Raila to scuttle his 2022 bid. The fallout has now been christened "the dynasty verses the hustlers". Tuju spoke during Ramogi Baraza, a popular Dholuo talk show focusing on current affairs in the country. Tuju also disclosed that all key decisions within the party are sanctioned by the President. Ruto and his allies have always singled out the SG for attacks, sometimes claiming his heart is in ODM. But according to Tuju, the Jubilee Party constitution gives the President immense powers as the party leader. “As the secretary general of the Jubilee Party, there is nothing I just wake up and do. Everything I do is after consultation with the President who is my boss,” Tuju said. Just recently, Ruto termed Tuju and other Jubilee top brass "crooks and heartless gangsters". The remarks came after the ruling party announced plans to make changes to the National Management Committee. The new officials were installed last week despite Ruto's protestations. Tuju described his relationship with Ruto as cordial. “We talk to each other only that for any request from him above me, I always refer him to the President before I act upon such matters,” he said. Meanwhile, the Star has established that Ruto has defied a directive to make contributions through the Covid-19 Emergency Response Fund. The Fund was established by Uhuru to coordinate all donations in relation to the ongoing pandemic. Ruto has instead been distributing food through a network of religious institutions and politicians. Using churches, mosques and MPs the DP, who has stayed away from the public limelight, has for the last month been distributing weekly food rations. The food is being distributed with firm instructions that there should be no publicity. A source involved in the distribution said, "Last week we fed 11,152 families. This week we have fed 16,600 families." The packages contain a 2kg packet of unga, 1kg beans and 400ml cooking oil. Churches in the network that Ruto is using include the Kenya Assemblies of God, Pentecostal Assemblies of God and PEFA Sisters with a Mission are also distributing dry rations and Iftar vouchers to vulnerable Muslim communities during Ramadhan with support of the DP. Speaking at Jamia Mosque, Supkem secretary general Mohamed Mahat said they were very happy that Ruto was supporting the vulnerable. "We have never seen a person support an entire community as Ruto has done. This shows love and concern for the vulnerable. It is ironic that the person offering sadaka and help to the people, also needs help from what he faces every day," he said. National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale said Ruto was focused on making the lives of Kenyans easier and not petty politics and drama. "Ndugu makamu wa rais amekuwa na sisi na anatoa kila constituency ya waislamu [Our brother the deputy president has stood with us throughout and has supported every Muslim constituency]," Duale said.  "In Jamia, he has supported 1,070 families this week only, this is Sadaka and it shows a person not interested in drama while helping." (edited by o. owino)