As athletes continue to count losses due to the coronavirus pandemic, former world 1,500m champion Elijah Manang'oi remains one of the lucky few since he used the break to fully concentrate on recovery to an ankle injury. Manang'oi had a 2019 season to forget after suffering the injury which saw him fail to defend his title at the World Championships in Doha, Qatar, but was lucky to see training mate Timothy Cheruiyot deliver the goods and ensure it remained in Kenya. Manang'oi, who is also the Commonwealth champion, had targeted to return at the first leg of the Wanda Diamond League in April, which was eventually called off due to the pandemic. He observes that, to him, this meant more time to focus on recovery and is now ready for the start of the season, which, under a revised calendar, will begin in Turku in August. "I was rushing to be fit for the first Diamond League leg in Doha but the break has given me time to fully recover and prepare for the season ahead. I am now injury-free and looking forward to kick-start my return in Monaco (Diamond League) in August. We will discuss with my coach and teammates at the club and plot a spectacular result in the first leg,” he said. At the moment, Manang'oi is among five Rongai Athletics Club runners preparing for the Maurie Plant Memorial Race on June 11 at the Nyayo Stadium. In addition to series races, Manang'oi insists his main focus is to add the Olympic title to his cabinet during the rescheduled Tokyo 2020, having missed on the 2016 Rio Games final due to an injury. And despite the perceived rivalry between the two lanky runners, Manang'oi observed that they work as a team and was quick to thank Cheruiyot, the Diamond Trophy holder, for winning the world title in Doha after a second-place at the London edition in 2017. “After sporting activities were suspended, we went back home for a short while but as a team, we have begun serious training for the Memorial race and subsequent events,"  said Manang'oi. "I have returned to the track hungrier for success with my major focus being next year's Olympics. It's the only medal missing in my cabinet and I am looking forward to making my dream come true.”