Following the outbreak of the COVID-19 Pandemic, it is noted that the Kenyan economy, just like other parts of the world, has witnessed a substantial slow down; a situation that may get worse in the short term. This is particularly so since most countries have resolved to lock down their economies to contain the spread of the virus. The impact of Covid-19 is expected to negatively impact the economy through reduced demand for goods and services, low levels of production, reduced importation of goods services and ultimately leading to job losses. In order to cushion Kenyans and the economy from the negative impact of the Pandemic and the measures to contain its spread, the Government introduced measures (income tax reduction from 30% to 25%, 100% tax relief for those earning 24,000 and below per month, VAT reduction from 16% to14% etc) under the Tax Laws (Amendment) Act 2020. The purpose of the Finance Bill, 2020 is to propose additional measures that will ensure continuity of the implementation of the key Government programs and ensuring fairness in the tax system by correcting maladministration of tax regimes. However, it has been noted that the intention of some of the proposed tax measures in the Finance Bill, 2020 has been misunderstood, taking into consideration the current environment against which the measures were proposed. Kenya’s current tax expenditure (tax exemptions, zero-rating etc) of 6% of the GDP places Kenya at among the highest tax expenditures in the world. In the year 2018, the tax revenue foregone by Government as a result of these tax incentives was estimated at  535 billion (almost 30% of revenue). These tax expenditures limit the Government’s capacity to fund critical expenditures necessary for the benefit of the general public and have not benefited the consumers in terms of expected reduction of cost of goods. Accordingly, the tax incentives have been benefitting the individual investors in terms of huge profit margins. In addition, the tax expenditures resulted in the unfair distribution of the tax burden due to tax incentives enjoyed by a few taxpayers. It was, therefore, found necessary to review and rationalize the tax expenditures. Considering that the tax rates have been reduced through recent tax (amendment) law, the tax incentives (tax expenditures) currently available to investors are no longer necessary since this amounts to over-subsidizing the companies. In this regard, it was imperative to review the existing tax incentive regime with a view to minimizing distortion in the respective regimes and provide a level ground for all taxpayers thus promoting growth. The review of the tax incentives, as proposed in the Bill, was therefore guided by the following: Some of the key amendments in the Bill that will support the common Mwananchi includes; Amendments to the Income Tax Act to raise the upper ceiling of monthly rental income that is subject to the 10 per cent monthly rental income rate to Sh15 million per year from Sh10 million per year. This amendment will lower the rental tax burden to landlords that earn more than Sh10 million annually. This will remove the affected landlords from the category paying rental income tax at the corporate rate of (25 per cent).The landlords currently earning between Sh10 million to Sh15 million will be paying rental tax at the rate of 10 per cent and effectively this will leave them with more money to spend and stimulate the economy. This will help to lower monthly rent to various tenants who are adversely affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. The information in the print media that the Finance Bill, 2020 targets to raise rental income is erroneous and not correct. I hope the above observations set the record straight about the intention of the finance bill 2020 and effectively addresses concerns of segments of the stakeholders.