The Catholic Church has asked the government to provide faith-based health workers with personal protective equipment. The Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops said in a statement read on Sunday by Ngong Bishop John Oballa that those workers are an important cog in the war against the pandemic. “Most of these faith-based facilities serve the hard-to-reach areas including arid and semi-arid lands and informal settlements. We request that these faith-based facilities be included in the distribution of PPEs and their staff be considered for Covid-19 treatment and isolation facilities,” the KCCB said. Bishop Oballa noted that faith-based health facilities supplemented government’s efforts to overcome the pandemic. “As religious leaders, we appreciate the efforts of the government and partners to vigorously fight this pandemic. With more healthcare workers, this can help contain the virus from spreading at the earliest opportunity,” the bishops said. Faith-based health facilities are a major part of Kenya’s healthcare traceable to 1800s when missionaries started providing medical care to native Kenyans. Ministry of Health data shows that there were 1,053 health facilities owned by religious organisations in Kenya in 2013. Inadequate protective equipment has been a major headache for many healthcare systems worldwide in the fight against Covid-19. While the number of health workers infected and killed by the virus remains unconfirmed, the World Health Organisation has raised the alarm over their exposure. “At WHO, we are concerned about the working conditions of health workers especially in developing countries like Africa. The top priority of African governments should be to protect health workers and by extension, their families,” Dr Matshidiso Moeti, WHO’s Regional Director for Africa, said in a press briefing last month. The bishops called for judicious spending of Covid-19 Emergency Response funds. “We are concerned about reports that the Covid-19 funds are being misused. These funds should be managed prudently for the benefit of those affected by the pandemic,” Bishop Oballa said. He expressed the church’s support for the frontline health workers. “To our frontline health workers, you are our hope in these times. We thank you for showing your love and sincerity for the country. Our hope moving forward is in your hands and the hands of God,” he said. He spoke during the Vocation Sunday service at the Holy Family Basilica. The service was attended by among others John Cardinal Njue. - mwaniki fm 