A fresh wave of landslides has displaced more than 250 people across Kisii. The families are from Mochorwa Two, Mesabakwa in Bomachoge, Chache. At Mesabakwa, rocks knocked down retired nurse Lucy Abuya's two houses. Three family members, a pregnant woman and two children, escaped death. “After an hour of heavy rain, we heard a cracking sound at the back of our house. When we rushed to find out what had happened the kitchen was already submerged in mud," Abuya said. Her son, Moses Bichanga, said they heard a rumbling sound like an earthquake before mud swept into the building, causing cracks on the wall. “Our househelp survived because she was cooking when the mudslide occurred,” Bichanga said. Fissures have formed on the ground as a result of the rain. Josephine Onchore said she fears for her life because the cracks have cut through her house and farm. Water is flowing through her semi-permanent house. Onchore has moved in with a relative in the neighbouring Kenyenya town. Geoffrey Aburi, 76, said his house has developed cracks but he cannot move because he has an ailing wife. "The whole village is in trouble. We have nowhere to run so let us die here in my house with my wife," he said. Village elder Mainya Omandi said up to 71 homes in Mochorwa and Mesabakwa are affected. He said despite numerous appeals to the government, they have not received any help. "We anticipated that the emergency and disaster department would be here as soon as this incident occurred but two days later, nobody has come, not even from the office of MP Alfa Miruka's CDF," Omandi said. The mudslides have also affected Nyasasa and Nyamondo villages in the neighbouring South Mugirango constituency. Area MP Sylvanus Osoro urged the county governments to speed up the rescue because they have disaster relief funds. In Kitutu Chache North, about 50 families are living in tents and schools. More than 30 families in Kionganyo are homeless after mudslides swept away their houses. Sensi ward representative Paul Angwenyi said they have not received any help from county government and pleaded for the national government to help. Edited by Frank Obonyo