Fresh leadership wrangles have started in Homa Bay assembly after a faction threatened to form parallel group to conduct House business. A group of MCAs led by acting speaker Geoffrey Anyango convened a special sitting at Kendu Bay showground in Karachuonyo constituency instead of the county assembly premises in Homa Bay. But their colleagues led by Gwassi North MCA Evans Marieba, his counterparts Okuku Miregi (Rusinga), Ellyphalet Osuri (Ruma Kaksingri), Walter Muok (Kanyadoto) and Evaline Otieno (nominated) said all the ward reps didn't agree to have assembly meetings outside Homa Bay town. Marieba and other 26 MCAs resolved to form their new leadership structure on Monday. They accused Anyango and some MCAs of bad leadership. They faulted Anyango for holding the county assembly proceedings in Kendu Bay without their approval. According to a notice that went round on social media, Anyango convened the proceedings to make changes in the assembly committees and approve the nomination of Kanyaluo MCA Jeff Ongoro as a member of the assembly service board. “In accordance with standing order 26 (4),the  business to be transacted at the special sitting be deliberations on the select selection committee report on the restructuring of county assembly committees ,” the notice read in part. Marieba accused Anyango of violating the law by holding the assembly proceedings without approval of MCAs in the House. “The law stipulates that members must agree before any proceedings outside the county assembly premises are conducted. This never happened hence their proceeding is illegal,” Marieba said. He said the county assembly had already been divided and can thus not continue under Anyango’s leadership. “We’re forming our new leadership structure to enable us conduct the assembly business effectively. We are going to announce our entire leadership structure on Monday,” Marieba added. Muok argued that it was wrong for Anyango to allow a discussion on introducing a new member in the assembly service board due to a court order restraining it. “Deliberating on nomination of a new member in the assembly service violates the court [order]. We’re no longer part of illegality hence our leadership structure will be declared on Monday,” Muok said. Miregi attributed holding of the assembly proceedings in Kendu Bay Town to divisive regional politics in the county. “There is a plot by some leaders to transfer the county assembly from Homa Bay town to Kendu Bay, which is under Rachuonyo region. We won’t allow this to happen,” Miregi said. But Anyango dismissed the claims saying the notice was sent to all the 60 MCAs. “The special meeting was done in accordance with the law.We moved it to Kendu Bay to accommodate all MCAs due to the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. Edited by E.Kibii 