 The Machakos county government and the county commissioner's office have been told to block all the shortcuts that boda boda operators use to ferry people from Nairobi to Matungulu subcounty. Speaking in Machakos on Monday, Matungulu MP Stephen Mule said the Komarock junction roadblock, which was initially moved from Joska town, has not been effective in stopping people from shuttling between the two counties. Movement in and out of Nairobi has been banned to contain the spread of coronavirus. But Mule said boda boda operators have been helping those from Nairobi to sneak into Machakos county using panya routes. "The county government and the provincial administration teams are not taking this seriously. Boda boda operators might be looking for their daily bread but they should not import coronavirus to Machakos," Mule said. He warned that tough action will be taken against anyone caught contravening directives to curb the spread of Covid-19 "Lets not be cheeky by ferrying people over from Nairobi. This disease is not a joke. Covid-19 is a very serious and expensive affair," the MP said. He urged Kenyans to stay safe and adhere to governments containment measures. "Kenyans, lets stay safe and I know with God, we are going to flatten the curve and our lives will go back to normal," Mule said. Machakos Woman Representative Joyce Kasimbi said the security team should put more effort to ensure nobody sneaks to the county. The Koma junction roadblock in Matungulu was moved back to Malaa area last week in an attempt to stop the illegal movement. President Uhuru Kenyatta on April 6 imposed ban on movement in and out of Nairobi, Mombasa, Kilifi, and Kwale, which he extended by 21 more days on April 25. The two leaders spoke in Machakos on Monday as they accompanied Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua to receive food, sanitisers and water tanks donations from different organisations based in the county. Mule assured the organiations that the donations will reach the vulnerable people. He said the county administration and MPs have started mapping out all vulnerable people within the county.  Edited by E.Kibii