Thirty Kenyans abroad have died of the coronavirus disease, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has said. Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Rachael Omamo said the deaths were recorded in the United States, Italy, Sweden, France and South Africa. It means 70 Kenyans have died from the virus, with over 900 cases reported. The CS told the Senate Committee on the Covid-19 Situation that 193 Kenyans have been infected in several countries abroad. She said there are 88 active cases overseas with four in the Intensive Care Unit. There have been 78 recoveries. “This is what has been reported to us and it may not be a reflection on the ground. Registration with foreign missions abroad is voluntary and the information we are getting is evolving and may not be complete,” she said. The coronavirus tally in the country crossed the 700 mark on Tuesday after 15 people, including a one-year-old, tested positive. On Thursday, the number was 737. Four more died, raising the toll to 40. Omamo said her ministry has faced several challenges in its efforts to assist Kenyans who have been affected by the pandemic while abroad. She cited the shutting down of air spaces by several countries, restriction of movement of people and mandatory quarantining and contact testing being conducted world over. The CS noted that her ministry has an emergency response committee to deal with the various situations Kenyans abroad are facing because of the pandemic. “The committee is engaging other countries on issues of quarantine, humanitarian assistance and resource mobilisation,” she added. The committee is chaired by Foreign Affairs Chief Administrative Secretary Ababu Namwamba. “The committee regularly reviews the situation in various parts of the world and recommends action to be taken,” Omamo said. She noted that Kenyans abroad have sought assistance from her ministry but limited resources have hampered the response. “The country is also faced with other issues that need immediate attention like the spread of locusts, raging floods and terrorism. All this has to be taken into account,” she said. The CS further noted that Kenyans are present in almost all countries of the world, which is another challenge facing her ministry. Domestic workers in the Middle East, Kenyans who travelled abroad as tourists and those who are abroad and have no required papers are most vulnerable. “There are those who are citizens in other countries. This group can, therefore, access health services where they are and most have valid work permits,” she said. Omamo added that they have formulated a framework for intervention to combat the effects of the pandemic. “We reach out to other nations asking them to extend visas and work permits.  We also have been giving stipends to those who are completely stranded, like those in Wuhan, China. Another intervention is assistance to those who wish to return home at their own cost,” she said. Omamo said the evacuation of Kenyans abroad has not been possible and would only be done if there is a “total breakdown of law and order in affected countries.” “Our choice has been facilitation. We look for an airline and negotiate the price of tickets. This is the norm and has been done by the British and Germans. We want to bring back only those who are in extreme difficulty,” she noted. She said the ministry has so far facilitated the return of a total of 744 Kenyans. (edited by o. owino)