Heavy Rainfall of above 70 mm is expected over some parts of Nyanza and the Rift Valley region, the meteorological department has said. In a seven-day weather forecast on Monday, Met said the counties of Bungoma, Busia, Kakamega, Vihiga, Nandi and Uasin Gishu Counties will receive the heavy rains beginning May 19 to 25. But it noted that moderate rainfall between 20-70 mm is expected over some parts of Kenya. The regions are; Siaya, Kisumu, Kericho, Homa Bay, Uasin Gishu, West Pokot, Keiyo-Marakwet, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Bomet, Nyandarua, Nakuru, Nairobi, Kiambu, Murang’a, Kirinyaga, Nyeri, Embu, Meru and Tharaka Counties. Light rainfall is expected over some parts of Narok, Kajiado, Nairobi, Machakos, Samburu, Laikipia, Baringo, West Pokot & Coastal Counties during the same period. Most parts of Turkana, Marsabit, Samburu, Isiolo, Wajir, Mandera, Garissa, Tana River, Kitui, Makueni, Kajiado, Taita taveta and some parts of Kwale, Kilifi, Narok, Machakos are expected to remain dry. High daily-mean temperatures of above 30˚C are also expected in parts of Turkana, Marsabit, Wajir, Isiolo, Garissa, Tana River and some parts of Mandera, Kitui and Baringo Counties. With the heavy rains pounding different counties, a total of 237 people have been killed by floods. The death toll stood at 194 the previous week. Some 33 counties have been affected by the floods even as authorities say the ongoing heavy rains will continue into next month. Those living near water bodies and in lowland areas have been urged to move to higher grounds. The government said the rains will continue int June and said there was an urgent need to avert further loss of lives and property. According to the MET department, there would be South easterly winds over Kenyan and Tanzanian waters turning to south westerly over Somali waters. "...with wind speed in range of 10 to 30 knots (5 – 15 m/s) expected over the forecasting period," Met said. Wave Height and Direction at the Sea will be: Moderate to high waves of 1.8 – 4.0 m (≈ 6 – 13 ft), expected to be mainly south easterly over Kenyan, Tanzanian and Somali waters. Sea conditions: Moderate-Rough Sea conditions due to moderate - high waves (1.8-4.0m) and moderate-strong winds (10-30 Knots) expected in Kenya, Somali and Tanzania waters throughout the forecast period.