More than 14,000 people affected by floods in Kisumu County have received donations of foodstuffs and other supplies. Each of the family received rice, maize flour, wheat flour, cooking oil, milk, uji flour, sugar, tea leaves, water purifier, cabbages, potatoes, blankets and mosquito nets. Governor Anyang Nyong’o led the donations drive accompanied by several well-wishers. Nyong’o on Sunday flagged off relief supplies to flood victims in evacuation camps in Nyando subcounty. The food donated by the Sikh community will feed more than 1,000 affected people in Kabonyo Kanyagwal ward. Nyong’o said that the Sikh community has scheduled daily food donation for the next three months. On Thursday, Nyong’o distributed food to 2,800  families in Nyando, Muhoroni, and Nyakach subcounties. Nyong’o, accompanied by his deputy Mathews Owili, said the donation worth Sh3.5 million will cover families for four days. He said the kind of floods experienced has not been seen in Kenya since 1963. “We are having this mix (of foodstuffs) because of the nutritional value and cognisant of the fact that they are fast cooking. As you are aware, access to cooking fuel is now seriously compromised,” Nyong’o. He added, “food distribution exercise will continue weekly as it has been ongoing until we pass this terrible patch.” Nyong’o said a total of 7,520 households have been displaced and are housed in various camps in the county. A few households have been integrated into the community but are extremely vulnerable and must be supported, he said. In Nyando, 4,175 households have been affected by floods with 600 in Muhoroni, 2,715 in Nyakach and 30 families in Seme. Nyong’o said there are also people affected and are not displaced in areas such as Nyalenda, Kisumu East, Dunga area and Kisumu West. “We have been feeding these people for the past two weeks both from our revenue account and from contributions received from well-wishers,” he said. So far, Nyong’o said, they have given out provisions to 8,276 households. Members of the Kisumu Economic and Social Council have convened and working on a post-flood and Covid-19 recovery strategy, he said. “This will give us a roadmap on how to execute a food resilience and economic recovery plan,” Nyong’o said.  (edited by o. owino)