A petitioner has asked the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission about the status of an ongoing investigation at the New KCC. Peter Ombati said that EACC had taken long to complete investigations into the hiring of a chopper for use by a Cabinet Secretary on a tour of the firm. Ombati said the EACC told the court that interrogations were at an advanced stage a year ago. “I seek your intervention to have the investigations into the affairs of New KCC completed. It is now five years since the allegation issues were raised and over one year since the court was informed that the said investigations were at very advanced stage,” he said. Ombati had sued New KCC for allegedly paying Sh2,600,000 (US$25,900) on August 23, 2017, to hire a chopper for Trade and Cooperatives Cabinet Secretary to use to inspect the modernisation of the firm’s plants. The helicopter was to ferry guests to Mombasa, Nyahururu and Eldoret. Ombati argued that no modernisation was taking place at the time. Ombati was then the NKCC company secretary. New KCC chairman Matu Wamae had defended the payment saying the helicopter was hired for a government function. Wamae said he accompanied the New KCC managing director Nixon Sigei for the three-day function. In his petition, Ombati noted that it was in May last year that the EACC told the court that investigations were being completed. Ombati had filed the case on June 19, 2018, at the Constitutional and Human Rights Division of the High Court of Kenya in Nairobi. The court then directed that since the matters raised touched on corruption, the case be tried by the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Court instead. The case was heard and determined by the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Court and judgment delivered on May 23, 2019. The court ruled that the petitioner had gone to court too early. It dismissed the petition because the EACC was still fully engaged with the investigations, which were at a very advanced stage. The court said it could not interfere with the investigations as the EACC ought to be allowed to conclude the investigations. On Friday, EACC spokesman Yassin Amaro asked the Star to furnish him with the details of Ombati’s complaints and promised to look into the matter.  (edited by o. owino)