Betway prides itself as having a keen interest in supporting communities to achieve sustainability. With the recent rollout of the Betway Cares initiative, the company aimed to assist families in disadvantaged communities, to get through the Covid pandemic, by providing care packages. Jane Kangu and Carol Nafula, residents of the Githogoro informal settlement, are among the many Kenyans that have been hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic. Jane, a Community Health Worker and Carol, a casual laborer who depends on menial jobs to earn a living, are the sole breadwinners of their families. The two women have been struggling to survive now that the economy has slowed down. Carol suffered an additional catastrophe when her house burnt down and she lost everything she had. Despite not having much herself, Jane stepped in to assist where she could and help lessen the burden that had befallen her friend. "The support that Betway gave us came in handy as we did not have much to eat. Our children kept crying to us due to hunger but now we are able to provide some food, which is a great relief especially for me as a mother." Jane and Carol’s older children have been helping within the community in distributing care packages brought by well-wishers to support those who have been greatly affected in terms of resources due to the Covid-19 pandemic. On the other side of town is Hellen Akinyi, a mother and a football player for the Kayole Starlets. Hellen and her team are also beneficiaries of the Betway CSR program through kits provided by the organization. Hellen, a mother of one, has had a passion for football since she was in class 4. "My parents were not too supportive of my interest in football and thought I would get lost in the activities that involve sports but when they saw my hard work and determination for the game they slowly started showing support." says Hellen. Football has helped take me through schooling by virtue of the sponsorships I received from playing the sport,’’ adds Hellen with an excitement in her voice. Hellen has been juggling motherhood, sports and a career as a fourth grade teacher for the last one year, even though she has been playing for the Kayole Starlets for four years. She tells us that when she found out she was going to be a mom, she fell into depression as she was still in school and she did not know how she would balance her studies and motherhood. However she received a lot of support from her family and her team and has even been able to go back and play with her team members. She plans to stay on a couple more years to fulfill her passion for football and maybe then step aside to allow another generation of women to shine, just like she has, and probably draw inspiration from her. Betway salutes these dedicated mothers taking on the world amidst all the challenges. Happy Mother’s Day! About the Betway Group The Betway Group is a leading provider of first-class entertainment across sports betting and casino. Launched in 2006, the company operates across a number of regulated online markets and holds licences in Kenya, Uganda, Ghana, South Africa, Zambia, Mozambique and Nigeria. Betway prides itself on providing its customers with a bespoke, fun and informed betting experience, supported by a safe and secure environment. Blue Jay Limited powered by Betway is licensed by the Betting Control and Licensing Board of Kenya.  For more information about Betway please visit: www.betway.co.ke   