Having spent two hours on the telephone yesterday, I can reveal the Premier League’s latest plans to deal with the disruption to the current season. The league's shareholders met this week to discuss extending player contracts which expire on June 30. On May 18, Premier League clubs will release a statement about a return to full-time football action. June 13 is the probable date when matches could resume with the 92 outstanding games played over the following eight weeks. Only UK government intervention will affect this. The seven outstanding FA Cup ties will also be completed during this period. By July 27 all Premier League and FA Cup matches will have been completed. August 3 will see players return for pre-season training but there will be no foreign tours. On August 9, Champions League resumes and matches completed in three weeks while the 2020/21 season is set to start on August 22.  Arsenal return to training On Monday, Arsenal returned to training with players traveling alone to their ten-pitch London Colney base. Players arrived in groups of five and were already wearing their training kit. Only the training pitches were open with no other club facilities available. Individual workouts kept players distanced from each other with no physical contact. Each player has his own set of footballs so they do not come into contact with anyone else. Coach Mikel Arteta is very particular about the training regime as he suffered from the coronavirus a few weeks ago. When the group of five players have finished training, they leave and another five arrive and this goes on all day.  Mourinho hoping to open Levy’s cheque book Tottenham Hotspur’s chairman Daniel Levy is a tough man to do with business with. Most clubs shy away from dealing with him as he rarely comes out second best. Levy’s aim at Spurs is to do what Chelsea and Manchester United have done in promoting younger players. However, manager Jose Mourinho is hoping to persuade Levy to sign Paris St-Germain’s 28-year-old right-back Thomas Meunier on a free transfer in the summer. His wages will be high which is why Levy will be hard to convince. The Belgian has indicated that he will leave PSG on the expiry of his contract. Mourinho says he wants a right-back and central defender to strengthen Spurs.  The other alternative is for Barcelona’s midfielder Arthur and defender Samuel Umtiti to join Spurs with Tanguy Ndombele moving to Spain.   Hudson-Odoi’s hopes for close friend Sancho Chelsea’s Callum Hudson-Odoi is very close friends with Borussia Dortmund’s Jadon Sancho and is doing everything he can to persuade him to come to Stamford Bridge. The two text or talk with each other every three or four days and Callum said: “I would love it if he came to Chelsea. We had a great partnership throughout our younger academy training days and the way we play with each other is amazing.” Dortmund still hope to convince Sancho to stay in Germany but it is looking more likely that he will return to the UK. Hudson-Odoi also revealed why the Chelsea approach to promoting and using younger players is working so well. He said that he, along with academy graduates Fikayo Tomori and Mason Mount always knew that manager Frank Lampard would be a successful coach at Chelsea. He says one of the reasons is that the younger players, who have done so remarkably well, look up to Frank and admire him for the way in which he lead the Blues as their captain. Stepping up to the manager has been a great motivation for the younger players.  Son joins the Navy on military service Tottenham forward Son Heung-min joined up with the 9th Marine Brigade last week on the volcanic Jeju Island. He begins his compulsory military service with the navy for up to four weeks in his native South Korea. It will be a tough four weeks as the Koreans are known to have a very challenging course for recruits. Son, who is 27 years old, was given permission by Tottenham to travel back to his homeland. Originally, he was due to serve a full 21 months which is usual for all able-bodied men. However, winning a gold medal at the Asia Games exempted him from that. Son attracts huge numbers of fans wherever he appears in South Korea and for that reason, the location of his training base is being kept secret.  Making money during difficult times Some Premier League clubs are struggling financially because of the lockdown and halt to the season. Cashflow is difficult at the moment. However, a lifeline is coming their way with an advance on prize money which would normally be received at the end of the season. Prize money is broken down into several parts. Payments will be made based on the current league positions and how many times clubs are due to appear on television. Merit payments will also be awarded but will not be as high as usual because some TV companies are demanding a return of fees paid for matches which have not been played or televised. One way for the TV companies to salvage something financially from this disastrous situation is for the clubs to allow greater access to their players for interviews and football-related programmes. Consequently, there have been more football shows than usual which feature interviews, short films on players and their lives, quiz contests and archive footage. All this brings in money for the clubs and players.  Lampard wants Giroud to stay Despite all the speculation that Olivier Giroud would leave Chelsea at the end of this season and head back home to France, it looks like he will extend his career at Stamford Bridge. Giroud is 33 and doesn’t fit the Frank Lampard team profile of promoting youngsters. However, he has proven his worth this season by stepping up when Eden Hazard left and no one recognises that more than Lampard. Just before the coronavirus break, Giroud entered the arena and scored two goals in five matches. With the Frenchman activating his option clause to stay,  it means that any club wishing to acquire his services would have to pay a fee.  Pedro courted by Roma I broke the news to you in March that Chelsea winger Pedro will not be renewing his contract which runs out in June. The Spaniard turns 33 in July and he has once again confirmed that he will leave the UK as a free agent. Pedro played in just nine games last season under Frank Lampard and a player of his world-class ability needs to be one of the first names on the team sheet every week. I have learned that Italian giants Roma offered him £2.7million in wages plus bonuses. However, I gather from Pedro’s agents that the American MLS is also showing interest. In a star-studded career, Pedro has lifted the World Cup and won the European Championship whilst also being capped 65 times for Spain. He was an important part of Pep Guardiola’s all-conquering Barcelona team a few years ago.  Ronaldo and Messi’s amazing records Taking a slight deviation from the Premier League I could not help but comment on 35-year-old Cristiano Renaldo and Lionel Messi this week. Cristiano scored his 700th goal during the current season and that included hitting the net in 11 consecutive games…even Harry Kane and Jamie Vardy would be proud of that record. He also made his 1,000th appearance in a top-flight football match. Lionel Messi, on the other hand, will be 33 in June and he needs to score another 17 goals to beat Pele’s record of 643 for one single club (Pele played for Brazil’s Santos).  McTominay following idol Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo says that, usually, he does not get much time for anything other than football. Training, playing and keeping fit takes up most of his time. However, things are a little different during the coronavirus lockdown and Ronaldo has been learning to do different things at home. He is spending a lot of time reading and learning. This has inspired Manchester United’s Scott McTominay to do the same and he too has taken to book-reading during the long hours spent at home.  How Wayne Rooney sees his future As I speak with players and clubs on a daily basis, it is inevitable that we discuss not only their particular club but also football in general. This week, I have had five conversations about Wayne Rooney. Many players and journalist friends of mine are convinced that Wayne is lining himself up for club management when he finally hangs up his playing boots. Long gone are his wild days when many headlines were about his bad-lad ways. Now he is leading the player coronavirus wage adjustment at Derby and as an assistant player-coach is a student of manager Phillip Cocu. Wayne’s motivation is no longer money and he carries himself with the assured confidence and style he has always shown as a player. He is currently also working towards earning his coaching badges which indicates how he sees his future now that he is 34.  How Ancelotti spends lockdown Everton manager Carlo Ancelotti has revealed the secrets of how he spends time during the coronavirus lockdown. Being forced to stay at home has helped him improve his culinary skills and he admits his best dish is cooking pasta (understandable as he is Italian!). He makes his own bolognese sauce and especially likes mushrooms or carbonara sauce. The new coronavirus guidance laws in the UK are rather vague and Carlo has taken advantage and goes out biking and walking by the sea with this family. Usually, his summer holidays are taken in his wife’s homeland of Canada and biking and walking are always two of their favourite holiday pursuits.