South Eastern Kenya University VC Geoffrey Muluvi has been given 30 days to recover 5,000 acres that have been grabbed. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission also wants Muluvi to explain why private developers have encroached on the land under his watch. He has been told to explain why he has failed to ensure ownership revert to the university, despite protests from stakeholders. Seku's main campus is located in Kwa Vonza in Kitui county. It was formerly South Eastern University College, a constituent college of the University of Nairobi. It became fully fledged after getting a charter in 2013. “The commission has received a report that part of the university land in Emali town area measuring approximately 5,000 acres has not been fenced for a long time and is being invaded by private developers who are trespassing on the public property and constructing structures,” EACC chief executive Twalib Mbarak said in a letter dated April 30. The letter titled Securing the University land at Emali Town is copied to Seku council chairman Swabah Omar and Ministry of Education Principal Secretary Samson Nabukwesi. “It is reported that this matter was brought to the attention of the university and no action has been taken to date. The allegations if true, then that would point at the failure to take care of public property under your care,” the commission told the VC amid plans to recover the land. The EACC also demanded Prof Muluvi to verify the allegations and advise on what steps the university has taken to secure the property and apprise the commission within 30 days. “The EACC is established under Section 3 of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Act, 2011, pursuant to Article 79 of the Constitution and is mandated to ensure compliance with the provision of Chapter Six of the Constitution and the Leadership and Integrity Act, 2012 (LIA) which lays out the basic tenets on moral and ethical requirements of public officers,” Mbarak said. He added that the commission is empowered under the Constitution to require public entities to carry out such functions and exercise such powers as may be necessary to enforce compliance with the leadership and integrity requirements. "The commission wishes to draw your attention to Section 21 of the Leadership and Integrity Act, 2012, which states that a state officer shall take reasonable steps to ensure that public property in the office’s custody, possession or control is taken care of and in good condition," he said.  (Edited by F'Orieny)