Kenya Rugby Union have named a six-man committee to come up with the way forward in as far as the 2019 -2020 season is concerned. The union will be represented by the director of fixtures, Hillary Itela alongside board members Moses Ndale and Peris Mukoko. On the other hand, caucus chairman Xavier Makuba will lead the Kenya Cup clubs alongside Kabras chairman Phillip Jalango and Mwamba RFC chairman George Mbaye. KRU chairman Oduor Gangla yesterday said the committee will forward its report, detailing all scenarios on how the game will resume. “Their job primarily is to consult and come up with a workable formula on whether the season should resume or not. There are several factors they have to look at because we are living in unprecedented times,” he added. Gangla, however, said there is no time-line when the committee should hand over its report. “I can’t give you a date when their report will be ready. We will have to wait for them to consult among themselves but as the board, we will be awaiting their report,” added Gangla. However, sources hinted that the earliest the game can be played will probably be July with clubs needing a window of six to eight weeks for pre-season fitness and conditioning if the government lifts the ban on sporting activities this month. Earlier this week, the union rescinded their decision to cancel the 2019-2020 season after mounting pressure from and a clubs with Kenya Cup sides threatening to go the Judicial Appeals Committee to have the move overturned. Both Kenya Cup and KRU Championship were due for playoffs on March 14 with the semi-finals following on March 21. The finals had been planned for April 4. The Enterprise Cup semi-finals were due on March 28 with the final scheduled for April 18. Kabras Sugar were leading the regular Kenya Cup with 74 points followed by defending champions Kenya Commercial Bank on 71. Homeboyz were to meet Menengai Oilers in the semi-final play-offs with the winners facing KCB in the semi-finals while Kabras Sugar were drawn to clash with the semi-final play-off winners between Impala Saracens and Mwamba. Strathmore Leos had topped the KRU Championship unbeaten on 76 points and were well on course to return to top-flight rugby after a two-year hiatus. Masinde Muliro University were lying second with 67 points.