Five people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Old Town evaded quarantine and fled with their families to an unidentified location, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has said. The five, whose results turned positive after the mass testing exercise in the area, are now a subject of a police probe. Joho on Thursday said legal action will be taken against them when found. "Who are you helping? What this means is that you have put even more of your relatives at risk," said Joho. He spoke at his office when the Covid-19 Committee gave an update on measures to be taken in Old Town, which has been put on lockdown. Businessman and politician Suleiman Shahbal, who delivered 20 tonnes of food donated by ODM chief Raila Odinga, said Old Town residents should not worry about food as there is plenty for it. Shahbal said the county government and the national government administration office have put in place elaborate measures to ensure the residents are comfortable during the 15-day containment period. “When Joho spoke with anger last Saturday, it was because Saum was hard on him that day. But I support him because if we joke around with this disease, people will die like chicken,” said Shahbal. Joho and Mombasa county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo, who co-chair the county Covid-19 emergency committee, announced a raft of measures that will be put in place to help Old Town resident adapt during the containment period. Three satellite markets will be opened daily for two hours at Old Port, Pigot Place and Mswalani mosque. “These are makeshift market places where people will be able to buy fresh vegetables, fruits and other basic items,” said Joho. The markets will be opened from 9am-11am daily. The sellers at the three satellite markets will be tested for Covid-19 before being allowed to operate. The county chief officer of medical service Khadija Shikely announced that a clinic has also been opened at Pigot Place to take care of patients suffering from other ailments apart from Covid-19. Shikely said the clinic will operate from 7am-6pm daily for the 15-day containment period. “There will be doctors who will be treating diabetes, high blood pressure, malaria, pneumonia, and other ailments,” said Shikely. The county unveiled another hotline number 0100001001 for Old Town residents who will require help. Haki Africa executive director Hussein Khalid also announced their hotline number, 0755000555, for any emergency help required. Kitiyo advised employers whose employees live in Old Town to give them 15 days off. “Don’t harass them when they do not report to work,” he said. Shahbal said Covid-19 is a disease that can be defeated if all observe the directives issued by the Health ministry. “If you don’t fear for your life, fear for the life of your spouse, your mother, your father, your brothers and sisters, and your friends who you can kill by infecting them,” said Shahbal. He said the 20 tonnes of food will go a long way in ensuring that Old Town residents do not go hungry. Joho said there is enough food for all the about 18,000 residents of the area. The governor refuted claims that he is bitter with Old Town residents after they took to social media to insult him after his outburst on Saturday. “The enemy is not your government, your governor, your politicians or Kitiyo. The enemy is Covid-19. That is why I am not enemies with anyone for whatever reason. I have no enmity with anyone,” said Joho. He warned the majority of the Covid-19 victims are asymptomatic, which poses a greater risk.