On April 14, while on patrol in Loitokitok town, police constable Rahab Kung’u saw three women being manhandled by council askaris. The three had walked from their homes to do manual jobs of downloading bags of vegetables for pay at the Loitokitok wholesale and retail market. They were not allowed in the market simply because they had no nose masks as dictated by the new Ministry of Health rules. The county government askaris were enforcing the laws in a bid to control the spread of Covid-19. The three women had no money for buying the required nose masks and therefore, they had no choice but to return to their homes empty-handed. Kung’u moved closer to the women to understand why they were being chased away. “I walked to them, and what they told me touched my heart. In the process of talking to them, one of them identified me and used the occasion to seek my assistance,” she said. The woman asked for Sh300 to buy the masks. That was the only money she had on her M-pesa account. She used it to buy masks for the women. “I have been happily married and living with my two lovely children at our Isinet home, until that day. As we had supper that evening, the images of askaris chasing away the women kept recurring in my mind,” Kung’u said. The officer was happy she had assisted the three women to access the market and probably feed their families that day. “As I slept, that night, I thought of the many others who slept without food that day because they are poor. I thought of the boda boda people who could not operate because they have no masks,” Kung’u said. The next day, after discussing the matter with her husband, she decided to use some of their savings to assist the less fortunate in the society. She went to a garment shop in Loitokitok town and bought clothing materials that she took to her tailor and produced hundreds of masks. By the end of the day, Kung’u had distributed 500 masks to boda boda operators and women in Loitokitok market for free. “I want others out there to be their brother’s keeper, too. We cannot all wait for the government to assist us. Whatever little you have can be of great help to others out there,” Kung’u said. The officer herself is not financially endowed, but she sacrifices part of her salary to get face masks. To date, she has supplied thousands of face masks to the residents of Loitokitok town and its environs who cannot afford them. Kung'u believes the government has too much on its hands, and those able should chip in to support the war on the virus. In the course of helping the vulnerable, Kung’u discovered that because of the economic meltdown, some of her fellow police officers also cannot afford to buy face masks that are now selling at Sh100 in Loitokitok. The constable enlisted in the force in 2008 as an administration police officer and has since served in Loitokitok town for five years. Nobody knew who Kung’u was other than being seen every morning, walking to Loitokitok police station from her Isinet home near Kimana town. But now she has earned a reputation as a leader in the war on the coronavirus. Kung’u, who also doubles up as police chaplain, says she grew up in a Christian family. Most of her duties involve praying and counselling. Fellow officers said she has always been their inspiration in the police force because of her constant prayers. “My colleague sees no big problem. Even at times of hardship, she would walk to your desk at our work station and request to pray for us. As police officers, we undergo a lot of stress,” said Peter Musau* (not his real name). Musau says sometimes they are frustrated by their seniors through many ways, such as being denied offs, time to be with their loved ones and even to attend to their loved ones while in need. Esther Nashipae, a vegetable vendor at the Loitokitok town market, is one of the three women who were chased away by council askaris, and she talks fondly of Kung’u. “She is God-given to us traders in this town. I have known her for the last three years as a woman of action. Whenever you have a problem and take it to her, she will do all that is possible to assist,” Nashipae said. “She helps people without asking questions if you present her a genuine problem. One time she gave me Sh100 to take my child to Loitokitok Sub-county Hospital after I approached her.”