David Luiz has been talking about his plans when his current Arsenal contract ends. I am disappointed at many poorly informed football media websites reporting surprise that Luiz will only stay for one more season if Arsenal use their option of one extra year which is in his contract. I always knew his contract technically ends this June and we have spoken about it…I know he favours staying at Arsenal for one more season but would like to return to Portugal next year when he will be 34 years-of-age. He started his career at Portuguese club Benfica before transferring to Chelsea in 2011. Lisbon, the home of Benfica, looks like his final destination. Luiz said this week, “I always said that I’d like to end my career at Benfica. My dream is to step on to the Estadio da Luz pitch in their colours.” So to put it simply, Luiz will leave Arsenal next month if the Gunners do not extend his contract by one year. They are looking to save on wages as Luiz earns £120k a week. Personally, I would keep his talent for a further 12 months considering he has done well under manager Mikel Arteta. However,  saving money is the priority now because of Covid-19 and the loss of revenues. Arsenal are due to make a decision probably next week. Klopp’s interested in Barca’s Dembele Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp’s ears were burning this week when he heard that Barcelona’s Ousman Dembele might be available for a knockdown price of £39million. Originally, Dembele had cost Barcelona three times that amount in 2017 but these are hard times financially for the Catalan giants as they look to sell players in order to earn some revenue. Dembele is a fast winger who is an imposing presence on the pitch. Things have not worked out well for him at Barca and although still only 23-years-old he has had several injury problems. His £200k a week wages have prompted the sale. When Liverpool were chasing Lyon playmaker Nabil Fekir a couple of seasons ago, Dembele’s name was also mentioned and Klopp’s immediate reaction was, “If he is for sale, then I’m interested.” Mourinho looking for a full back Jose Mourinho is looking to strengthen Tottenham’s full back position. He is worried about the reliability of both Serge Aurier and Kyle Walker-Peters. Mourinho’s main interest is Belgium international Thomas Meunier. However, his club Paris St Germain recognise that they have one of the best full backs in the world and they don’t need to sell players. As a Plan B, Mourinho is looking towards Timothy Castagne, who at 24 years of age, has only one year left on his contract at Italian club Atalanta. Castagne has said he would like to move to the Premier League and would be a good fit in Mourinho’s squad. United could improve using homegrown talent Manchester United have always believed in their academy and a succession of managers have made use of the youngsters coming through. United also spend a bit of cash when the situation calls for investment and big money has been spent over the years on Angel Di Maria, Anthony Martial, Luke Shaw, Harry Maguire, Aaron Wan-Bissaka and Daniel James. And then, of course, there is the £50million spent on Bruno Fernandes. Current manager Ole Gunner Solskjaer believes in his youngsters, rather like Frank Lampard at Chelsea. His resolve to make the most of his resources this summer is going to be put to the test because I have been told that Odion Ighalo’s employers Shanghai Shenhua are seriously not allowing him to extend his loan to the Reds. United are hopeful of persuading the Chinese club to let him stay and the situation is ongoing. The Nigerian has impressed scoring four goals and that is better than one goal per game. He has been valuable and cheap. Another inexpensive player is 19-year-old Angel Gomes who is in a contract dispute with United because he wants more game time. Unless Solskjaer promises to use him more consistently, he will depart and probably go to Chelsea. Solskjaer rates the playmaker and has brought him back into the training squad this week which is a sign of progress. If he stays, which will cost United practically nothing, it will probably be at the expense of Juan Mata, Jesse Lingard or Andreas Pereira who would drop to the bench. Another player who would boost the squad is Dean Henderson, currently on loan at Sheffield United. He has performed excellently in the Blades climb up the table into the top half. The 22-year-old could seriously challenge David de Gea and that is United’s thinking. Solksjaer wants to improve the right-wing, centre-forward and perhaps the centre of midfield but they do not need to spend money that is not readily available after the lockdown and instead could use their home-grown talents. Two players who have impressed Solskjaer on their return to training are Paul Pogba and Marcus Rashford. Both recovered from serious injury during lockdown but have returned in perfect health and although the club are treating them very carefully, everything appears to be well with Pogba’s ankle and Rashford’s back. Leicester’s new “secret weapon” Leicester manager Brendan Rodgers has been singing the praises of their new “secret weapon” which is a £100 million state-of-art new training complex called Seagrave. The site boasts 185 acres of land housing an indoor training area with a glass roof, 12 full-size pitches, a nine-hole golf course and a 30 bedroom hotel complex with restaurants, lounges and indoor gymnasium. Rodgers said this week, “There is great ambition within this club and although we can never compete financially with the bigger clubs in the Premier League, we can be more than competitive. The new training ground will be one of the best in the world where any international quality player would be proud to come and work.” Could it be Pochet-toon-o? Despite reassurances from the Newcastle board that his job is safe until the end of the season, it cannot be very comfortable for manager Steve Bruce every time his phone rings or he picks up a newspaper. The rumours surrounding Mauricio Pochettino or Rafa Benitez stepping into his shoes are coming from all directions. Benitez, a Toon army favourite, is known to be keen on returning to the north east once current owner Mike Ashley has departed. The £300 million takeover by Saudi Group PIF is nearing completion with the Football League currently making it’s decision on the group’s suitability to own the club despite severe opposition from many quarters. The World Trade Organisation has ruled that the Saudi government supports illegal European football streaming by a company called beoutQ and this could threaten the potential takeover. Pochettino wants to remain in the Premier League which he considers the best in the world. However, he has not expanded his views on managing Newcastle despite showing interest. Benitez would only return if his high salary expectations were met and he was given funds to bring in players such as Manchester City’s John Stones and Chelsea’s Ross Barkley. Pochettino’s close friend, ex-Spurs legend, Ossie Adiles has confirmed that Mauricio has been approached and talked with Newcastle and there is an offer on the table once the takeover is confirmed and he is tempted although he has not made a decision as yet. Giroud could still move on\ Chelsea striker Olivier Giroud did not expect to be at the club after last January but he stayed because manager Frank Lampard could not find a replacement. Giroud has spent most of the last couple of seasons on the bench and wants to finish his career playing regularly. Howver, Lampard cannot guarantee that wish and it now looks as though Giroud will be kept on for another year as Chelsea look to extend his contract. Lampard wants the security of having a top striker in his squad if he is unable to bring in a younger player to boost his options. However, I am told that despite signing the new contract, Giroud still might not stay if he is promised first team regular football at another club. It all depends on whether owner Roman Abramovich decides to invest in new players or keep the current squad whilst rebuilding finances after the lockdown.  Man City players return fully fit Speaking on Thursday, Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola says he is delighted with the fitness levels of his players after their lockdown period. City returned to training, arriving separately and tested in the car park for the virus. They were split into small groups, keeping 2 metre distances and working at different parts of the ground. Guardiola lost his own mother to the coronavirus and was especially demanding so that all players were protected. He said, “Fans all around the world are looking forward to the return of football but we have to follow the rules of the lockdown. My players were looking forward to returning and they came back perfectly. I am very proud of them.” Kean out and Rabiot in at Everton? Whispers coming out of Everton indicate that manager Carlo Ancelotti has said okay to Moise Kean joining Italian giants Roma on loan next season. The forward has had his problems of late with a reprimand for breaking coronavirus lockdown rules. Everton believe that a deal could be struck for a loan without the usual clause in the contract offering the player for sale when the arrangement ends. Ancelotti is known to be very interested in bringing Frenchman Adrien Rabiot to Everton and the two have history from their time together at PSG, where the manager gave Rabiot his debut start. Arsenal have shown interest but Rabiot, I have been told from Juventus, his current club, would be interested in working with Ancelotti again.