Kenya on Friday recorded 15 new cases of Covid-19, raising the number to 411, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has said. On a sad note, four new deaths were recorded, raising the number to 21. Eleven of the new Covid-19 cases were from Mombasa, while a second case was recorded in Wajir. Eight of the new cases are female, while seven are male. There are now 15o recoveries after six more people were discharged. A total of 1,434 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, marking a rise from the trend where less than 1,000 had been tested daily. To date, 21,702 tests have been conducted. On Labour Day, Kagwe delivered his speech differently, using computer slides instead of reading a hard copy. He said graphics are easier to understand. A document tabled before the Health Committee of the National Assembly chaired by Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege indicates  Sh6.5 million had been set aside to procure stationery. On Friday, the ministry started mass testing in Kawangware, where there are currently 13 cases. Kawangware has the highest number of cases in Nairobi, followed by Eastleigh with 11. Kilimani has six cases, while Kilieleshwa has five. In Mombasa, Mvita is a hot spot with 36 cases. Meanwhile, Kagwe said truck drivers will be tested in Mombasa. The government has heightened surveillance along the border with Tanzania following rising cases of Covid-19 in the neighbouring country. According to the World Health Organisation, Tanzania, which neighbours Kenya to the south, on Wednesday reported 180 new cases bringing the total to 480. Tanzania now tops the list of the six East African community nations. Kagwe reiterated that the government will not hesitate to close any eatery that fails to follow the strict protocols set out for reopening. "And yo know that will be expensive for you," he said. Kagwe said the government is catering for health workers' accommodation, including furnished units at KU. "They are our responsibility," he said. Kagwe said the cost of tests has been subsidised across the board to between Sh2,000-Sh4,000 and is no longer Sh10,000. Eateries had been informed on Thursday that it would cost between Sh2,000-Sh4,000 to test their employees before resuming business. More follow...