Private schools can charge for their online content so long as they agree with parents, Education CS George Magoha has said. Parents of learners in some high-end private schools have complained about prohibitive fees for online learning following the shutdown of normal learning in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis. But Magoha said the schools have teachers who expect payments, hence there is nothing wrong if parents pay for "a service delivered". He was speaking on Thursday when he appeared before the National Assembly Education committee chaired by Tinderet MP Julius Melly. "We have 155,000 teachers in private schools. Those in government are being paid. In order for those teachers in private to remain in service, they have to be paid," Magoha said. "It is some form of justice that if those people develop some form of content, which is conveyed to their children online when it comes to charging, they should talk to those parents and agree on a pro-rata basis.” Once schools were shut down from March 15, international and private institutions moved swiftly to launch online platforms to ensure continuity in teaching and learning. Meanwhile, the government has sought to assure education stakeholders that learning will resume from where schools left so e-learning does not disadvantage others when school reopens. The CS told Parliament that his ministry will soon make a proposal for more funds to ensure the safety of learners once schools reopen. Magoha, however, insisted that the future still looks uncertain so they cannot tell when schools will reopen but added that everything will be dictated by the Covid-19 situation. "In another two weeks whether in this House or in public, we shall have the scenarios that you’re looking for, but the scenarios must be informed by what is happening in the Ministry of Health,” he told MPs. “The children are alive and are at home.  Even if it means they have to stay at home for a year, so be it. It is not only in Kenya where this is happening. But who knows, we could be in control in two months. So don’t open a metal pipe and tell me to give dates. It is not possible to do so.” 