Senators from the Coast have protested the latest government directive requiring all cargo from the Mombasa port to be transported exclusively via the standard gauge railway. Led by Mombasa’s Mohamed Faki, they termed the directive a plot to kill the economy of the region and render jobless the residents who entirely rely on the port for a living. The leaders assailed Transport CS James Macharia for reneging on last year’s agreement that business people be allowed to choose their means of transport. “It is very unfortunate for the CS Ministry of Transport to take advantage of the coronavirus pandemic to issue illegal directives and strangle the already battered economy of the coastal and other neighbouring counties on the Northern Corridor,” Faki said. The ministry recently issued a circular to all businesses to haul their cargo to other parts of the country and neighbouring countries using the SGR from June 1. The order, in which the CS cited the coronavirus pandemic as the reason for confining the cargo transportation to SGR, comes barely six months after the Ministry revoked an initial similar directive. Senators lobbied for the revocation of the initial order. Faki once again sought the Senate’s intervention to reverse the order, saying its implementation will hurt the coastal people who rely on the trucks for daily bread. Kilifi Senator Steward Madzayo said the latest direction was unlawful and meant to punish the already suffering residents. “If there is something that was done by the government to hurt the coastal people and their economy, it is this issue of SGR,” he said. He claimed the region’s economy has come to near collapse since the government built the SGR. “That is the truth. If you look at it keenly, before SGR, Mombasa had many businesses. People had jobs. But after the government came with SGR, things have changed,” he said. Taita Taveta’s Johnes Mwaruma faulted the CS for not keeping his word despite agreeing that Kenya is a liberalised economy. “Last year, leaders from Mombasa met CS and agreed that because we are in a liberalised economy, it is was good to leave the trucks to carry cargo as well as the SGR depending on how businesspeople will decide,” he said. He added, “I am shocked that the CS is using [the] corona[virus] to bring back the issue that had been agreed on. It is good for leaders to respect each other. We are representing our people and we said that coastal and other regions serviced by the trucks, the economy has deteriorated.” Kwale Senator  Issa Juma Boy said that with the directive, the Ministry drove the last nail on the economy of the entire coastal region. Besides the businesspeople, drivers and their families are among the millions of others directly depending on the port for a living, Boy said. “Business in Mombasa has deteriorated and the main source of income for the people from the coast is the port. So if the cargo will not be transported by trucks, it will cause big problems. “I suggest that we must have a way forward so that every business person earns a living.  Let this pandemic not be the reason why transporters are not allowed to transport cargo,” he said. (edited by o. owino)