Incoming KDF chief Robert Kibochi has paid tribute to his predecessor Samson Mwathethe and thanked him for his mentorship. "I will personally remember your calmness in the face of challenges. Your concern for the welfare of personnel will continue to inspire us... to continue the good work and raise KDF to higher levels," he said. He spoke on Friday during the farewell ceremony for Mwathethe at the DoD headquarters. Kibochi also expressed gratitude for the opportunity to lead KDF. "I am profoundly honoured for this opportunity to lead the fine men and women of the force. I undertake to do it diligently," he said. Kibochi recounted Mwathethe's time at the forces, starting by giving his biography, complete with his service number, which brought attendees to laughter. "I salute you and wish you good luck and hope to be meeting you in Mtwapa when we come," he said. Earlier, a military band played in the run up to the ceremony as top military officials attended the event, all wearing face masks. Kenya Navy officers fired a 17-gun salute. The defence forces launched a book during the ceremony titled 'War for Peace Kenya’s Military in the African Mission in Somalia, 2012-2020'. It captures the lessons and experiences of the defence forces serving under Amisom. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Thursday last week promoted Lt Robert Kibochi to the rank of General and appointed him Chief of Defence Forces. Mwathethe's term expired on April 17. Kibochi served as the vice CDF during Mwathethe's tenure. Mwathethe’s term had expired in 2019, but the President extended it for a year. The President also promoted Lt-Gen Levi Mghalu and Jimson Mutai to the ranks of Major General and appointed them Vice Chief of Defence Forces designate and Commander of the Kenya Navy designate respectively. The officers will assume their new positions on May 11. The swearing-in will be held at State House. “I look forward to working with these officers closely in service to our motherland. For you, General Mwathethe, I wish you fair winds following seas; and the very best in your future endeavours," President Kenyatta said. The President lauded Mwathethe for the role he played in protecting the country’s territory and expanding the military. “Since your appointment as the Chief of Defence Forces five years ago (May 2015), we have seen significant expansion in our military and enviable improvement in the defence capability of our forces; thus giving Kenyans confidence that their borders are well protected from any external aggression,” Uhuru said. “During your tenure, we detected and expunge early enough a number of plans by those who do not mean well for our country, in good time,” the President added.