Nyeri wants to increase the number of dairy cows getting artificial insemination services from 11,450 to 20,000 annually. Governor Mutahi Kahiga said this translates to a 75 per cent increase. The aim is to improve milk production and income for farmers, he said. The county has been offering free AI services since 2006. “We are working closely with the national government in the provision of inexpensive semen and nitrogen to other private investors who can also work with us towards the achievement of this,” he added. The county has procured four vehicles, a tractor and a forage harvester at Sh11.3 million to enable it to meet its target. The four Suzuki Jimny vehicles will go a long way in enhancing the mobility of AI service providers, enabling them to reach more farmers even in the remotest parts of the county, Kahiga said. The vehicles will be dispatched to four subcounties – Kieni West and East, Othaya and Mathira. Going forward, Kahiga said, budgetary allocations will be increased to buy more vehicles for the remaining four subcounties. “We want to take an unprecedented step where we will not hire drivers, but we will allow officers serving the animals to use the vehicles themselves to cut down on cost,” the county chief said. The tractor and forage harvesting machine, he said, will increase the county's capacity to three tractors at the Agricultural Mechanised Services (AMS) stationed in Naromoru. In the last two to three years, the county has invested over Sh20 million worth of equipment for AMS. The facility has accessories for baling, forage harvesting and ploughing and farmers will get the equipment’s services at a subsidised price. He said while commercial forage harvesters charge Sh13,000 per acre, the county government will charge Sh7,000, which is half the price. Agriculture CEC James Wachihi said on Friday some subcounties, such as Kieni West and East where the services are needed most, are expansive and therefore the equipment will come in handy. The tractor, Wachihi said, will enable farmers to move away from traditional ways of production, especially now that they are adapting the growing silage as the main fodder for dairy cows. “The way to do that is with a proper harvester to chop it into small sizes for easy compacting,” Wachihi said. The chairperson of the Agriculture committee in the assembly and Kirimukuyu MCA, Muriithi Ndagita, said farmers have been keeping inferior breeds that give them low milk production. He said the vehicles will enable AI service providers to access farmers and give them breeds that are going to increase their production and get good returns for their milk. The county assembly, he said, will in future allocate more money so that more vehicles can be bought and distributed in each of the eight subcounties. Edited by A.N