Deputy President William Ruto triggered a social media storm yesterday with a tweet that appeared to fire a political salvo at his detractors. Without any political innuendos, the DP caught his critics off guard. Many expected the country's second in command to rattle his enemies, but the hustler from Sugoi played top-flight political combat by only saying the country is battling the coronavirus pandemic, destructive floods and locust invasion. By not directly reminding his enemies that they were focusing on non-priority areas—fixing him—he reminded all to individually and collectively step out to support ravaged Kenyans. **** Could it be true that some people want the coronavirus pandemic to go on forever considering what is happening in one of the coastal counties? After a lot of hue and cry over accountability of funds set aside in the county to fight Covid-19, a group of friendly MCAs was selected to hurriedly pass some regulations allowing the county to spend hundreds of millions of shillings on mitigating the effects of the pandemic. The regulations were passed on a Tuesday evening after the MCAs hurriedly passed a resolution to extend sitting hours. Moreover, some MCAs were not informed of the sitting only to hear of the irregular allocations later. Many claim a mega scandal is in the offing. **** The new broom at Afya House could have taken the Health ministry by storm, but failure to reorganise a key docket risks ruining former Nyeri Senator Mutahi Kagwe's track record. There are claims that while the minister successfully pushed out some officers who served at an equally critical section, a cabal of graft masterminds is intact at another key department. Corridors of Power understands that for the CS to successfully deal a deadly blow to the cartels that had literally hijacked Afya House, a reoganisation of another docket could be inevitable. How long it takes the CS to strike might determine his pursuit to make a lasting impact at the graft-ridden ministry. There is panic already amid reports of another purge. ***** Did some senators allied to the Tangatanga movement converge at the home of a key Deputy President William Ruto lieutenant on Sunday night? Well. It has emerged that a senator from Rift Valley could have played host to his colleagues in the Ruto bandwagon to scheme how to deny President Uhuru Kenyatta quorum at State House on Monday. The senators are said to have made passionate appeals to their colleagues to snub the Senate Parliamentary Group meeting. The meeting, which by all standards appeared to contravene the tough curfew regulations and Health ministry social distancing guidelines, stretched late into midnight.