Learners will have longer school days for catch-up classes and remedial sessions when they reopen after weeks out due to Covid-19. Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha in a report to Parliament's Committee on Education has hinted at a reopening of schools by early June. Of immediate concern is to ensure the completion of syllabi at all levels of education within the scheduled time. This is to ensure no disadvantage to candidates sitting this year’s national examinations. Magoha has proposed the shortening of August holidays by two weeks and half-term by four days to recover lost school time. The Covid-19 outbreak led to the closure of schools on March 15,  three weeks earlier than scheduled. The ministry also extended the reopening for the second term by a month from May 4, cutting off four weeks of the school calendar. “My ministry will continue consulting with relevant stakeholders in education sector and relevant government agencies as it monitors the progression of Covid-19 and its effects on the sector before coming up with new interventions necessary during recovery phases,” Magoha told the MPs. In a separate document titled Ministry of Education’s Kenya Basic Education Covid-19 Emergency Response Plan,’ the ministry has outlined measures to ensure the safety of learners in schools. The plan endorsed by CS Magoha, Basic Education PS Belio Kipsang and the Director General Elias Abdi is aimed at supporting learning during and after the virus crisis. The ministry hopes to reduce panic and stigma that could be caused by the presence of those with a history of coronavirus. The focus will be towards the most vulnerable including teenage girls in communities with early marriage cultural practices. Children who depend on school feeding programmes and orphans will also be targeted. The ministry will roll out strict hygiene guidelines in all learning facilities to keep the virus at bay. The document recommends mass production of masks as part of the response plan. Schools will also be fumigated and renovations of washroom facilities in some institutions conducted. The ministry also notes it will assess levels of trauma and support students and teachers who might need help. The school feeding programme shall be expanded by providing porridge to those with increased needs occasioned by the coronavirus. The programme covers at least three million learners mostly in arid, semi-arid and informal settlements in the country. Those in the school environment could also be trained in basic health-based activities necessary in schools during and post the pandemic. In the meantime, the focus is to deliver out of class learning.  The ministry recommends for solar power to help those not in the main grid access classes. Magoha was scheduled to appear before the Education Committee on Tuesday but requested postponement due to a Cabinet meeting. He will meet the MPs on Thursday. Magoha told the assembly clerk that his ministry is preparing a status report on the impact of Covid-19 pandemic on schools. He will also detail the measures to mitigate the effects of the disease. The CS said 460 institutions have been designated as isolation and quarantine centres. Most are secondary schools. “It is expected that the Ministry of Health will fumigate the schools before handing them over when learning commences,” he said. Some 25 universities and polytechnics, 36 medical colleges, 28 teachers' colleges and 331 secondary schools are under use. The CS said the ministry has been holding virtual meetings to ensure smooth running of education matters. He said that before the pandemic, Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development had implemented Competency-Based Curriculum in Pre-Primary 1 and 2 and Grades 1-4. He said the institute is also preparing for the rollout of Grade 5, which is expected to be ready for commencement in January 2021. “This process has however been disrupted,” he said. The closure of schools affected learning for 15 million students in primary and secondary schools, he said. Magoha said KICD and the national broadcaster KBC are currently running education programmes for learners through radio, EDU TV channel, Youtube and Kenya Education Cloud. “The uploading of digital content to the Kenya Education cloud has been upscaled,” he said. He added, “In order to reach many learners, KICD has held discussions with Telkom and Safaricom on provisions of bulk SMS services.” On April 29, ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi accused Magoha of failing to provide leadership in the sector in the wake of the pandemic. Mudavadi said Kenyans do not know of any measures the ministry has made for parents, teachers and learners to facilitate, equalise and monitor home learning. He said that not every learner has access to radio or television and the Internet. “Even those who can physically access these facilities are challenged with the cost of activating them,” Mudavadi said.  (edited by o. owino)