A teacher convicted of killing her husband will serve 20 years behind bars instead of a life sentence. Jane Nambuye Manyonge was sentenced to life by the High Court on May 30, 2017, for the murder of her husband, Francis Mulumeti. But the Court of Appeal on Friday reduced the sentence. Manyonge had pleaded not guilty to the killing, which took place on November 30, 2013, at Riruta in Dagoretti. On the night of November 30, 2013, a security guard noticed that the door to the couple's house was ajar and the lights were on. He found Manyonge who told him that her husband was very sick. He saw Mulumeti lying on the floor covered with a bedsheet. When asked what had happened, Manyonge said Mulumeti had fallen on a stool and injured himself. They contacted a medic who on arrival found the late lying on a mattress with a cut in his chest. He was already dead. Manyonge rushed to the police station to report that her husband had died and that she had tried to administer first aid to him before he passed on. In court, Manyonge said she arrived home earlier than her husband who got there at about 9pm. “She heard a commotion and saw the deceased fall down with part of his body, the head, inside the house and the legs outside the door. The deceased was holding a bottle of beer,” court papers read. Manyonge testified that she tried to drag Mulumeti inside the house but could not. His pulse was weak. She administered mouth-to-mouth resuscitation without much success. The accused then called the guard and together they placed Mulumeti on a mattress and covered him with a bedsheet. They noticed blood oozing out of an injury in his chest. After her attempt failed, she reported the incident at Riruta police station. Manyonge admitted the couple had a difficult relationship because Mulumeti drank heavily. She said their lack of biological children and Mulumeti's bedwetting took a toll on him and affected his self-esteem. She denied responsibility in the death but was convicted and sentenced to life. Manyonge appealed, claiming that the trial judge relied on prosecution evidence that was weak. “In the circumstances, we find that a sentence of 20 years' imprisonment would meet the ends of justice,” appellate judges Mohammed Abdullahi Warsame, Jamila Mohammed and Asike Makhandia ruled. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya