Taita Taveta Woman Representative Lydia Haika has expressed concern over the increasing number of people sneaking into the county. Haika said despite the cessation of movement imposed on Mombasa, Kwale and Kilifi counties, people are still sneaking out of the areas into Taita Taveta county. A number of people are also said to be coming in through the porous Kenya- Tanzania border, thus, posing a risk of spreading coronavirus. Speaking while presenting her donation to the county resource mobilisation team on Monday, Haika demanded that stiff measures be imposed to stop entry. “People are still sneaking in and this is a worrying trend. I will engage the county commissioner, who is the co-chairman of the County Emergency Committee, to find a way of curbing such movement,” she said. Haika asked Nyumba Kumi and village elders to immediately report to authorities those sneaking into the county and warned of dire consequences for people caught contravening the partial lockdown. “Citizen responsibility is very important in the fight against Covid-19. Report to authorities before things get worse,” Haika added. Bigavi Mwailemi, a member of the county resource mobilisation team, noted that the culprits use boda bodas and transit vehicles from Kwale, Mombasa and Kilifi counties to access the county. “We are informed that people are even using motorbikes to travels from as far as Mombasa. It is worrying that people can be this crooked,” Mwailemi said. He asked security agencies to be more vigilant and man all known shortcuts. The former county executive asked security agencies to revise their patrol patterns, noting that curfew was not being fully implemented in some parts of the county. “Some people have now mastered the movements of police and they immediately open bars at around 9pm when police leave the streets,” Mwailemi said. A fortnight ago, county commissioner Rodah Onyancha revealed that boda boda operators were smuggling goods from Tanzania to Kenya through the porous Taveta border. She said the riders risked contacting coronavirus from the neighbouring country. Onyancha said those found contravening the directives will be arrested and quarantined at their cost. Edited by Henry Makori