Did former Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto reject an offer to be appointed Chief Administrative Secretary? A fly on the wall told Corridors that the vocal ex-chairman of the Council of Governors declined the post arguing that it was only two years to the 2022 General Election and it could complicate his political plans. Rutto, in his meeting with President Uhuru Kenyatta, is said to have accepted that his party Chama Cha Mashinani will take a role in an expected Economic Recovery Council to steer post-Covid-19 strategy. Rutto has taken a low profile since his defeat in the 2017 elections.  Are a governor and senator in Nyanza playing mind-games with their constituents? Well, word has it that the two are bitter enemies when the sun shines but retreat under the cover of darkness to cut deals. A small bird whispered to Corridors that the senator mooted the approach when he realised the governor is so unpopular that he might not make it back to the office after the 2022 elections. The man, having developed an interest in the seat, is said to be keen on upping his dwindling popularity hence plays to the public gallery to avert any links with the incumbent's shortcomings.  An MCA from the Coast has left tongues wagging amid questions about how he raised capital to open a wholesale shop recently. The leader who is very close to a governor from the region is said to have knocked on every tycoon's door in the region asking for some food and cash, ostensibly for residents of a constituency he is eying. A bird whispered to Corridors that the man did not distribute all that he was given. They say more than half of the well-wishers’ donations could have ended up at the MCA’s shop.  A health workers’ union leader could find himself in trouble over conflict of interest. The official is said to have used a company associated with him to ink a contract with a government ministry. The other association officials now fear that the key trade unionist could have gone to bed with the government in what could puncture the members' resolve for a pay hike. It is alleged that the official also has a contract with the Council of Governors said to have been awarded to silence his heavy criticism of counties. Recently, the unionist acquired a swanky Range Rover. Members say the luxurious car is a mockery of the union official's claims to be pushing for better salaries for them. 