MP Mugambi Rindikiri has called for concerted efforts in dealing with water scarcity in Buuri constituency to aid in the fight against Covid-19. Rindikiri said residents are facing other challenges such as lack of electricity and food, even as coronavirus bites. The MP said the virus has become a menace to many in his constituency and appealed to well-wishers to give the little they can. Most parts of the constituency and semi-arid. The legislator spoke as he distributed masks, sanitisers and food distribution to the vulnerable, the squatters in the constituency and people living with disability. Rindikiri said Kenyans' lives matter more than the ongoing "political rhetoric and propaganda aimed at tarnishing some leaders". “We have so many challenges in Buuri, including lack of water, electricity and roads that need upgrading. We welcome every person who is able to donate something small and food to residents,” he said. Buuri deputy county commissioner Asha Kiiva told the Star that the national government has started distribution of food to the needy in the area. She said people living in Riverside, Kairiri, Kangoi, Kwa Joshua, Mukuri and Gitiaraga slums have benefited from food donations and there are pllans to sustain the programme. “We had forwarded more than 4,000 individuals' names and right now, about 2,000 are receiving Sh1,000 government stipend. We are reconciling the list to enlist those that are vulnerable and were left out. The government has plans to start food aid but we are not sure when,” she said. Kiiva added that she had initiated the aid after a resident visited her office with complaints he had taken porridge to sustain his hunger for days. “I lobbied from well-wishers to assist those living in slums and they quickly chipped in. The MP,  some MCAs, senior civil servants and farms have donated to this course." "We distributed food to 200 people on the first day, 500 people on the second day and 400 others on the third day.  About 350 others have also benefited,” Kiiva said in her office. Meru county commissioner Allan Machari said the county has identified 90,000 vulnerable community members set to benefit from government support after the floods and Covid-19 pandemic struck. This is in addition to 34,000 people supported via cash transfer funds through commercial banks such as KCB and Cooperative Bank. Edited by EKibii