Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa has declared that he is the Luhya kingmaker. Wamalwa said the Luhya community should wait for his word to know who will form the next government. He spoke to residents in Namanjalala in Kwanza constituency where he launched a food distribution drive for flood victims on Sunday. Wamalwa asked Luhya leaders to desist from following some political leaders for handouts. “Wait and I will tell you who will be in the next government. It is constituted a year to elections,” he said. The Devolution CS said the government has plans to construct dams in all riparian and swampy areas. He added that plans are in place to relocate residents to higher grounds. Present during the event were Devolution PS Micah Powon, former Lands Assistant Minister Bifwoli Wakoli, area MP Ferdinand Wanyonyi, speaker Joshua Werunga and MCAs Alfred Weswa (Sirende) Emmanuel Waswa (Keiyo) and Ben Mulipuko (Kapomboi). Wakoli wondered why residents were asking Wamalwa to vie for governor in Trans Nzoia when there will be numerous national positions in future. “There will be the position of Deputy President, Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister in the next government. We should be planning on how Eugene will clinch one of them,” he said. However, the statement contradicts Wamalwa’s earlier statements at Kitale’s Westside Hotel. A source who spoke on condition of anonymity said the CS held a meeting with among others former gubernatorial aspirant Andrew Wanyonyi and Matisi MCA Obed Mwale where Wanyonyi shelved his ambitions to support Eugene. If he vies for the governor’s seat, Wamalwa is expected to face stiff competition from Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa to succeed Patrick Khaemba. Two weeks ago, Chris said he was ready to face any candidate and will use all means to succeed Khaemba. He is allied to Deputy President William Ruto. Eugene, on the other hand, is allied to President Uhuru Kenyatta. Uhuru has fallen out with his DP. Political pundits said Wamalwa’s sentiments in Kwanza were meant to demean Ruto. “The DP has been dishing out cash to several MPs from Western Kenya,” a source said in confidence.  