The closed borders have provided an opportunity for Kenya airways to do things differently. The airline has been getting a lot from outside but the closed borders have made them find a solution. According to the airline, for every problem there is an opportunity in that particular problem and that is what it is focusing on. They only hope is that when airspaces are opened and aircrafts back into operation, they will be in a state of readiness, state of safety, and hygiene that is required to avoid reverting back to the risk of infection experienced before the shutdown. On March 25, the national carrier Kenya Airways announced a move to temporarily suspend all international flights. This was as a result of the current COVID-19 pandemic that has seen most countries close its air spaces amid efforts to control spread. The move was in line with the government directive to suspend all international flights. CEO Allan Kilavuka said the airline's international services will remain suspended until further notice. Customers affected by the suspension will be able to change their bookings for later travel or exchange their booking for vouchers for future travel within 12 months, Kilavuka said. This was barely five days after the national carrier said it had been forced to reduce its network by over 70 per cent and it had become increasingly difficult to continue offering international passenger services. The suspension saw KQ’s management team announce a 75 percent pay cut while some of its staff sent on unpaid leave beginning April 1. It is estimated that since then the airline has so far lost overSh10 billion.Currently, the airline has 36 aircrafts, 34 passenger aircrafts and two freight aircrafts. According to Kilavuka, so far 30 aircrafts are packed, while two are under maintenance and three others are active for operation. “Our freight operation is continuing, we are still operating other aircrafts like the cargo aircrafts. We have around four aircrafts still active for duty as required,” he said in an interview with the Star. Kilavuka said they have been supporting charter operations thus having a fleet that is active, a fleet that is stored and a fleet in maintenance. The CEO said the current situation created by the pandemic has provided tremendous opportunities for the airline to think differently and creatively. “As you can see a lot of innovations are coming out of this extraordinary situation. We are using this opportunity to think differently, creatively, to see where we can improve, be more efficient, and utilize out skills differently,” he said. He added, “Secondly, we will fly again. When we come back we will make sure that we are coming back stronger and ready for the new world, because it will be a new world, a new context”. Kilavuka said with the current situation, there is need for the airline to be prepared for that context and hope that KQ will fly again and Kenya will fly again in the economy.“We will be part of the catalyst to make sure that the economy is moving in the right direction,” he said. Impact of work when normalcy resumesEvans Kihara, the Technical Director echoed Kilavuka’s sentiments saying just like in 9/11 the security concerns around the boarding an aircraft were increased, they anticipate the health and hygiene standards will be of concern for the passengers, regulators and the operators. “So, we have reviewed cleaning procedures to align with the health regulators requirements and aviation requirement to ensure that all potential viral risk-associated with covid-19 or any other health risk are well mitigated,”Kihara said. He said ordinarily the airline had the disinfection procedure that was largely oriented towards bacterial disinfection and antibacterial cleaning.He said they have had to revise the chemicals they operate with the authority of manufactures to use now viral standard disinfectants. He said that requires manufactures to them the authority to ensure the disinfectants they use do not damage the aircraft structure. “We have heighten or increased the cleaning standards. We have reduced the frequency from the ordinary seven to three days. We have also extended the depths. Now because the highest risk is through transmission and touch, we are cleaning any area where there is an opportunity to touch,” he said. According to Kihara, in the past the technical teams were not cleaning the touch screen for the IF but now they have to clean each and every touchscreen after every flight that has departed. He said the state and depth of cleaning has been enhanced to cater for all potential high touch areas. The department has close to 600 staff but only 350 are active while the rest sent on leave. Kihara said the aircrafts in as much as they are not flying, there is a while maintenance regime and system that ensures that whatever actions are done are sustained and maintained within regulatory compliance. “We still have parts coming in. Our materials team is still available, and we are also undertaking heavy maintenance activities to the aircrafts previously scheduled,” he said.He added, “We are doing maintenance on the freighter, and also heavy maintenance for other aircrafts that were per the plan”. He said as an approved maintenance organization, they offer maintenance, repair and overhaul services. “The aircraft itself offers passengers freight and mail services,so as an approved maintenance organization, we offer maintenance, repair and overhaul services for the aircraft,components and engines to a certain degree,” he said. A typical lifeline for a Dreamliner would be 12 to 15 years which is the most viable life of the aircraft.Beyond that it becomes close to uneconomical maintaining because of the impact on cost of maintaining the aircraft. KQ as an airline has two certifications.The first one is the air operator certificate for carriage of passenger and mail. The second one is the approved maintenance organization certificate for the maintenance of the aircrafts allowing them to maintain KQ aircrafts or any other operator who has a fleet where they have capability. Beyond KQ the certificate allows them to provide maintenance services to other regional operators either by components or inout sessions in Accra, Lagos, Lilongwe and Lusaka. The maintenance teams are also are currently supporting AirBotswana as they start their operation.Ordinarily when the airline is operating maintenance isnormally done based on the hours of operation. Just like a vehicle has mileage that determines the next check,an aircraft has flight hours that determine the next check. “You do not just pack it but you also store it. You must store it in a state that you ensure that you do not enable it to create an environment where corrosion can persist, and protected from the weather elements, protected from systems that do not get the usual lubrication,” Kihara said. He said an aircraft by design self-lubricates when it operates and in a situation where an aircraft does not operate it is required to be maintained in that form of soft-lubrication around the wheels, engines, ensuring the seals are well greased and engines turn occasionally. “You will also need to protect all the unpainted surfaces to ensure that they do not rust neither do they corrode. All unpainted surfaces are protected with corrosion-inhibiting compound. All inlets and exhausts are also covered to ensure that outside foreign objects do not get in and also you don’t want birds creating a nest inside the engine,” he noted. Removal of seats Kihara said since the aircrafts are grounded, they have taken advantage to do maintenance that ordinarily would take one-two years to be done. He said in certain aircrafts they have removed all the seats and their covers providing room to repair certain seat structures that are repaired within 2-year interval. “Now that we have that particular ground time, we are taking advantage of the situation at least to do certain maintenance inside the cabin to ensure that the aircraft seats have been repaired, seats covers all of them removed for thorough cleaning so that when we bring them back, the risk of infection or transmission through the aircraft is heavily diminished,” he said. Cost of aircraft maintenanceAccording to Kihara, the price of a typical GNX engine is more less than half the price of aircraft. He said at least acquisition may be close to 100 million dollars and overhauling one engine, or repairing is close to 8 million dollars depending on the particular work. “The acquisition for typical 787 engine, GNX will cost you around 30 million dollars, equivalent to Sh3 billion.Maintenance for such an engine will cost around 8 million dollars, equivalent to Sh800 million for the overhaul event for that particular engine,” he said. Kihara said aircraft maintenance is an expensive field and that is why they have to do as much locally. He said for instance, just assembling the tires alone requires three major parts. The tire and the trade itself will require over a million shillings. “The break unit which is supposed to stop the aircraft has some‘brake pads’ that will go a typical overhaul at Sh40 million,” he said.