That ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi has for the last few weeks been hosting several politicians from across the political divide is no longer news but what the former Deputy Prime Minister in the grand coalition government is up to has left his competitors dumbfounded. Most of those he has met mostly are from Deputy President William Ruto’s camp sparking speculation that a political deal between the two leaders could be in the offing. Or could Mudavadi be just building his own support pillars ahead of the 2022 general election which he has declared he will be running for President? A governor from Mt Kenya region is between a rock and a hard place. Reason? In the last one month, the county boss is said to have faced massive onslaught from a onetime confidant who is now reported to be eyeing dethrone the governor in 2022. The county chief at the same time cannot seek solace in another popular camp since he burnt the bridges long ago and one of her other competitors has position herself as the front runner for that camp. Just this week, the governor is said was unhappy one of his competitors accompanied by senior government officials staged a show that was seen as part of his 2022 campaigns. Deep State could have realised albeit too late that they fired the wrong people in the Senate using the crude scorch earth policy. The operatives in bid to save face and justify the perverse moves, desperately reached out to the affected persons a day after the ouster. A prominent senator is said to have been tasked to deliver a vocal senator from Rift Valley to work on a pact. The now much sought after, a no nonsense senator is said to have flashed them an offensive middle finger salute telling them they are firmly on course with the leaders of their choice. The blow back from the bloodbath is devastating. Seems every politician has a price and can mortgage loyalty for pennies as long as their price is met. Corridors understands the three MPs from Kirinyaga were given some decent cheddar to ditch the subject of their admiration and pledge allegiance to a rival camp. Our snitch intimates that the hungry and broke MPs were given 20 million each to ditch a popular faction of the ruling party with tacit instructions that they denounce them in public. Word has it that some MPs will be targeted with big bucks to switch sides. The drawback was that the MPs received incredible hostility on the ground after  people shouted back at them over sudden change of heart.