A recycling firm in Thika has donated 100 beds to the Kiambu government to be used at Covid-19 isolation centres. The beds, worth Sh10 million, are made of waste materials by Ramani Recyclers Ltd, a subsidiary of Kevian Kenya Ltd, which produces Afia and Pick N’ Peel juice brands. CEO Kimani Rugendo, while handing the beds to county officials at Thika Level 5 Hospital, said that despite being made of recycled waste, they are water- and fireproof, hence durable. "These beds will offer services to Kiambu residents for decades,” Rugendo said. He said Ramani has been recycling waste Tetra Pak papers to make ceilings, doors, hospital beds, roofing materials, seedling bins, pallets for industrial use, furniture and dustbin. They have a Sh350 million plant that was established in September 2019. “Recycling plays a key role in waste management and it’s an area that has been given a wide berth by investors. It’s a venture that has not only enhanced hygiene in our environment but also come in handy to address the shortage of vital equipment like beds in this difficult time of Covid-19,” Rugendo said. Rugendo noted that a similar donation has been made to the Kajiado county to assist in tackling Covid-19. The CEO called on other corporate entities to join efforts and assist the government in the fight against the virus. “I appeal to my fellow businessmen to sacrifice and pool resources to help the nation overcome the adversities occasioned by the virus,” he said. Kiambu county acting Nursing Services director Augustine Gatimu said the donation will help address the shortage of beds in the quarantine centres and enhance the county's preparedness to tackle the virus. He said 50 beds will be placed at the KMTC Thika quarantine centre, while the rest will be distributed to other facilities, including Kiambu Institute of Science and Technology and Karuri. “This is a significant boost in our preparedness as a county to address coronavirus cases that might arise in Kiambu,” Gatimu said. Ramani Recyclers has already signed a collection partnership deal with several organisations, among them the national carrier Kenya Airways, Brookside Dairy and Tetra Pak, for the waste package materials.  Edited by F'Orieny