Some of the squatters evicted from the Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company land in Ruai have moved to KBC land in Matungulu, Machakos county. The victims claimed that Lands Permanent Secretary Peter Muraguri told them to resettle on the land which also belongs to the government. "I have today led a delegation of squatters whose houses were on Friday night demolished by the government to the land shown to us by Lands PS Peter Muraguri at KBC in Matungulu, Machakos County recently, " Mathare 4A Resettlement Scheme Group chairman Reuben Ojwang' said. Ojwang' addressed the press on the land in Matungulu on Sunday. The squatters faulted the government for effecting the evictions and demolitions against its promise to resettle them first. "We, on April 24, went to the Interior CS Fred Matiang'i's office before the demolitions seeking his intervention. The office promised that we wouldn't be evicted until we were resettled on another land. The office called the Lands CS and told him to handle the matter," he said. Ojwang' added, "On May 7, 2020, Muraguri invited us to a meeting at Njiru deputy county commissioner's office in Ruai. He chaired the meeting attended by a Mr Masinde, an officer from the Ministry of Land Physical Planning department, area DCC, ACC and chief." After the meeting, they all visited the land in Matungulu where Muraguri allegedly told them to relocate there. "We were brought here and shown the land by the government. The PS said we will all be resettled here before evictions," Ojwang' said. The squatters said they couldn't wait for official resettlement by the government because the officials breached their agreement. "All of a sudden on May 15, houses were demolished at night. As the chairman, I have now decided to lead the victims to this land as we wait for the government to process their land ownership documents and papers to show that they had been resettled on the land. Ojwang' said the victims are part of those who were allegedly resettled on the land after they were evicted from Mathare to pave way for Mathare Upgrading Programme in 2002. They have lost their livelihoods and property to the demolitions. The squatters said they had occupied 227 acres in part of the 3000 acres earmarked for sewerage expansion. They claimed they were paying rates of Sh680,000 annually to the Nairobi City Council from 2007 to date. "We have been living in peace on the land. The government installed electricity in the area at a cost of Sh150 million in January 2019," Ojwang' said. The project was funded by the World Bank. The locals said out of around 180 families that lived on the land, 34 were still stranded with nowhere to go. Women and children spend nights in the cold as the rains persist. Jacinta Wambui said she was among those resettled on Ruai land from Molo following the 2007-8 post-election violence. "I have nowhere to go. I spend the night in the cold with my children. All my belonging have been destroyed, I used to peddle water using a donkey to earn a living, " Wambui told the Star. The squatters asked the government and well-wishers to help them relocate to the new land. They also called on the government to provide them with security since their property was being stolen by criminals following the demolitions. Mathare 4 A members said they were over 1,628 people. The victims who moved to Matungulu land also included members of Ruai squatters groups and Molo IDPs.