A single, ruthless tackle by Patrick Onyango of Allan Makaka Shisiali during a Kenya Rugby Sevens training session in 2004 sparked a 16-year friendship. Before the session, Patrick had vowed to "shut him up" on the pitch for gloating about a match that Patrick’s club, the Kenya Harlequins, had lost to Makaka’s Impala RFC. “Over a two-hour training session, I managed to get a single tackle but I made it count. To you, that was a hard tackle but what impressed you was that I gave you a hand and picked you afterward. Off the pitch, we bonded very quickly,” Patrick said in praise of his buddy. Patrick’s testimony about Makaka is shared by many other family members, friends and colleagues. Makaka – who died in a crash on Mombasa Road last Saturday at age 37 – was a speedster, a storyteller and matchmaker. “Our friendship kicked off at an opportune time as it was also through you I met my wife. You were so proud of your matchmaking skills. You took your role as godfather to my daughters seriously,” Patrick said in a eulogy. Allan Onyango, Patrick’s brother and a former teammate to Makaka, recalls his first meeting with the man he nicknamed Sibuor Malala, the Lion of Western. “He was the loudest guy in the locker room. You could hear him from outside the room and I was immediately drawn in by his unique storytelling. He exuded confidence as he told story after story," Allan says. He was more than just a talker. Makaka’s words could also be weighty, wise and inspirational. “Off the pitch he had a wonderful heart as he carried the team spirit with him. He was always the one who organised team events and his stories were the best,” former Captain Innocent ‘Namcos’ Simiyu recounts. His caring attitude was exemplified during the national Rugby Sevens’ tour in Morocco and Melbourne, which was Makaka’s lowest point after he tore his knee ligaments. “Makaka managed to get us around a French-speaking country, acting as our team liaison by using Lingala to speak to the locals. He still managed to keep a brave face and made the tour memorable despite hobbling around on crutches,” Allan recalls. He was internationally renowned for his supersonic speed as attested to by former Fiji sevens’ legend Waisale Serevi who described him as the fastest player he had ever seen. “His nickname Makaka 9.9 seconds was well earned as he was one of the fastest, if not the fastest, wingers to ever emerge from Kenya. He was extremely hard to chase down,” former teammate Victor Sudi said. With 86 points, the Musingu High School old boy was the highest try scorer for the national team during the 2004-05 World Rugby Sevens Series. Makaka will be buried at his home in Mukhonje village, Kakamega county, on Saturday. He is survived by his widow, Lilian Muthama, and two children Liam Lijoodi Shisiali and Lyona Ndunge Shisiali. (Edited by V. Graham)