In September 2014, Karen Njeri Wanjala left for South Sudan to work as a beautician and a hairdresser. She left her daughter, 14, under the care of her cousin, Eunice Njeri Wambui. A month later, Wanjala received a call informing her that her little one had contracted a cold and was under medication. She was requested to travel home to attend to her. Upon arrival, Wanjala went to the home of her cousin only to be informed that her daughter, Tamara Njeri, had succumbed to the illness. Little did she know that Wambui had battered Njeri to death. She headed to Kenyatta University Mortuary where the body was. It had marks on the face, both elbows, knees and shoulders. Wanjala got suspicious and requested for an autopsy. It revealed the child had died after being physically tortured. The injuries were suggestive of child battery. She reported the matter to the police and her cousin was arrested and charged. The particulars of the offence were that between September 2014 and October 30, 2014 at Zimmerman estate in Kasarani, Nairobi, Wambui murdered Tamara Njeri. During the trial, the investigating officer testified that Wambui had indicated the child died while on a potty. She was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment, a judgment she was dissatisfied with. She moved to the appellate court seeking to quash the conviction and set aside the sentence. In the appeal, Wambui claimed that during the trial, there was no evidence by the prosecution to identify her as the person who murdered the deceased. She had earlier testified on how the deceased collapsed and was pronounced dead at the hospital. She denied battering the deceased or beating her at all. However, Judges William Ouko, Fatuma Sichale and Sankale ole Kantai concluded that the sentence was deserved as a defenseless child was battered until she died. "The appellant became a terror to the child. She battered her repeatedly, inflicting the injuries found by the pathologist, a finding which the trial judge agreed with. The appeal has no merit and we dismiss it in its entirety,” the court ruled. Edited by Henry Makori