 Professional Footballers’ Association chief executive Gordon Taylor says halves of less than 45 minutes are being considered when football resumes. Discussions about the Premier League’s return are ongoing but Taylor says players are “concerned” about safety. “They are not stupid,” he told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme. “They would have to be satisfied that it is safe to return, and it is their choice.” The Premier League is hopeful of a potential June 8 resumption. “We don’t know the future but we do know is what propositions have been put, what ideas have been put, the possibility of having more substitutes, games possibly not being the full 45 minutes each way with talks of neutral stadiums,” said Taylor. “Ideally, you want to keep the integrity of the competition, and of course, that was about playing home and away and having the same squad of players as before it was suspended. “So there’s lots of points to be made, but above all, can the seasons be completed and can they be completed safely?” Taylor’s comments follow a number of Premier League club doctors raising a range of concerns with league bosses over plans to resume the season. Meanwhile, Football League (EFL) clubs are facing a ‘cash hole’ of £200 million by September, chairman Rick Parry told a parliamentary committee yesterday. Parry, the former chief executive of Liverpool, was being questioned by the Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee, and said all involved in the game, including players and owners, needed to ‘share the pain’. “We are heading for a financial hole of about 200 million, a cash hole we need to fill, clubs will need to fill... the cash hole towards autumn looks pretty grim,” said Parry. Parry said he was hoping the league would come out of the crisis ‘stronger, leaner more efficient, to have a proper reset’ and said he hoped players would be willing to take pay cuts. “What was clear at the start of the process (was that) the players were not aware of the depth of the problem,” he said, adding that an “open book” policy from the league would help the players see the need for cuts or deferrals. The EFL, which includes the second tier Championship, has not played since early March.