Nairobi residents drawing their water from Sasamua Dam will have to wait a little longer before the supply resumes. Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company acting MD Nahason Muguna said in a statement on Tuesday that the repairs are in progress. "It is expected that by May 31 the temporary reinstatement works will be completed," he said. Muguna said the move will lead to the resumption of water supply to the city from Sasumua Dam before permanent works are completed. "The works require re-routing of the pipeline to avoid recurring damages of the pipeline in the current route as this is the third time this pipeline has been damaged in the same area by landslides," he said. The Sasamua water supply was interrupted on May 8 following a massive landslide that occurred within the Aberdare Forest. The landslide damaged 600 metres of the main pipeline that supplies water from Sasumua Dam to Nairobi. The Nairobi water boss said engineers have been mobilised to rectify the situation by the Ministry of Water, Sanitation and Irrigation, Athi Water Works Development Agency and NCWSC. Muguna said site preparation and construction of access road is in progress to facilitate transportation of materials deep inside the Aberdare Ranges. He said the new route will involve laying of 3.5km water pipeline. "The work will take six weeks at an estimated cost of Sh362 million." He said areas that have been getting water from Sasumua will receive water with low pressure during the supply day under the water rationing programme. The areas set to be affected include those along Waiyaki Way, Naivasha Road, Kangemi, Lavington, Westlands, Parklands, MP Shah Hospital, Agha Khan Hospital and ILRI, Upper Hill, Kilimani, Nairobi Hospital, Kenyatta National Hospital and Community. Others are University of Nairobi main campus hall of residence, Upper and Lower Kabete campus, the University of Nairobi and Kenyatta University Parklands law campuses. Estates around Kenyatta market, Kibera, Lang’ata, Jamhuri, Ngando, Riruta/Satelite, Dagoretti Corner, Kawangware are also set to be affected. Areas along Lang’ata, Madaraka Estate, Mbagathi and Ngong roads, Karen, Loresho, Nyari, Kitisuru, estates along Peponi Road, New Muthaiga and Thigiri Ridge will also be affected. Meanwhile, Muguna said the supply of water to the city from Ngethu Water Treatment plant that had also been frequently interrupted by the high turbidity is back to full capacity. High turbidity had led to the blockage of the intake along Chania River. With the rains subsiding in the Aberdare Ranges, however, Ngethu Water Treatment Works is back to full capacity and water supply in the CBD. Estates along Thika/Outer Ring Road, Mombasa Road, Kangundo Road, Kiambu Road - the Eastern part of the city - is back to normal. Muguna said the supply of water in other towns within the metropolis - including Thika, Gatundu, Limuru and Ruiru with water intakes in the rivers whose catchments is the Aberdare forests - had also been interrupted due to blockage of the intake points and high turbidity during the heavy long rains the country is experiencing. "We appeal for indulgence as we work towards restoring the production of water and its distribution to normalcy. We further appeal to our customers to use the available water sparingly." Edited by R.Wamochie