Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and his Nakuru counterpart Susan Kihika have asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to respect democracy. Speaking just hours after they were replaced as Senate Majority Leader and Whip respectively at a meeting at State House, the two said that the Jubilee Party was no one's private property. "We must stop running the party as private property," Kihika said during a press conference at Parliament. The two claimed that the meeting and decisions at State House were null and void as the necessary procedures were not followed. According to the two, some of the Senators said to have been in the meeting were not there bringing into question the purported voting. "To the president, We cannot lead the country through forgery. You cannot forge the signatures of our colleagues," Murkomen. He claimed that four helicopters were dispatched to airlift some Senators whose signatures have been forged. He said that it is "a big joke that a senator of Kanu was elected majority leader" and that the Jubilee has its headquarters, which is not the State House. Murkomen was replaced by West Pokot Senator Samuel Poghisio on Monday following a Jubilee Coalition Senate Parliamentary Group Meeting on Monday chaired by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Kihika was replaced as Majority Chief Whip by Murang'a Senator Irungu Kang'ata. According to Murkomen, the State House did not send an invitation to Senators allied to the Deputy President William Ruto. "There was no invitation extended to any of us, especially 22 Jubilee Senators for the meeting at State House." Kang’ata will be deputised by Wajir nominated Senator Farhiya Ali Haji. State House spokesperson Kanze Dena-Mararon said 20 senators from both Jubilee and Kanu attended the meeting. Murkomen dismissed the changes at the State House saying the members the meeting that is purported to have raised the quorum is not true. "The decision to remove us is null and void because of the procedure... there was no meeting of Jubilee... there was no meeting to remove us," Murkomen said. He added that they are awaiting communication from the Senate Speaker which he said will be made on Tuesday. The Senator added that " We have wasted three years fighting the deputy president let us use the next two years to salvage the presidents legacy." The Nakuru Senator has already disputed the changes saying that the members who attended the meeting did not reach the quorum needed to make such changes. In a letter addressed to Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka on Monday, Kihika alongside 21 other senators claimed that they were only informed through the media that there was a meeting for Jubilee Party senators. "We did not receive any formal invitation for any meeting with an agenda to discuss the removal of the Senate Majority Leader and the Senate Majority Whip," she said. "We believe in the unity of the Jubilee Party and we do not support anyone who is trying to create factions within our party."