The family of a Korogocho man discharged from a private hospital on credit is desperately appealing for Sh400,000 to clear the debt. Health ministry director-general Patrick Amoth intervened and asked the Metropolitan Hospital to discharge Kennedy Okoth. The 34-year-old man had been detained at the facility for non-payment of the bill. He was discharged on April 17 after Amoth's intervention through a letter to the hospital on April 14 requesting the CEO to enter into a debt payment arrangement with the family. The family sought the ministry’s help after unsuccessfully trying to persuade the hospital to release Kennedy patient on credit. “Kennedy was admitted to the hospital on March 20 complaining of severe chest pains. We moved to Amoth’s office seeking government assistance for his release after the facility detained him due to the accrued bill,” his brother Erick Okoth told the Star on Sunday. The family is now worried since the payment arrangement with the hospital is nearing the expiry date yet the amount has not been raised. “The family has since been trying to raise the Sh400,000. We did a letter to the Ministry of Health to assist us. They, in turn, gave us a letter asking the facility to release the patient on condition that we settle the bill in six months,” Okoth said. Amoth’s letter seen by the Star reads: “The ministry is in receipt of a letter dated April 9 regarding patient Peter Okoth Kennedy, previously managed at your facility… "Erick Okoth, a relative of the patient is requesting assistance to clear a pending bill of Sh395,000 accrued over the duration of the patient’s management. The family claims to be unable to settle the entire bill at once and is requesting a structured credit facility to clear the bill.” Kennedy’s wife Beryl Okoth said she is the sole breadwinner and cannot raise the amount. She depends on menial jobs to provide for the husband and two daughters. “Kindly help us clear the bill through Paybill 112233, patient number 042378,” Beryl appealed to well-wishers. The patient had initially been taken to Mama Lucy Hospital "but there was no doctor to attend to him", according to the wife. She moved him to Metropolitan, the nearest private hospital, after his condition deteriorated.  - mwaniki fm  