Tough as nails Gor Mahia defender Joash Onyango still rues the late injury that forced him to sit out during Harambee Stars appearance at last year’s African Cup of Nations finals in Egypt. The no-nonsense stopper was ruled out of the tournament after picking an injury two days before their opening match against Algeria. “It was very painful to watch the tournament on the bench but there was nothing I could do. I felt very bad and I am still disappointed by the miss. However, I am glad that we had good defenders who took over and gave their best.” Onyango revealed that despite being injured before the match against Algeria, he remained hopeful that he would still have had an opportunity to play if Harambee Stars had made it to the second round. “There was still a possibility that we would make it to the second round and here I saw an opportunity to play but it was never to be. Having watched the tournament on the bench, I have a big hunger to go back. “I believe we still have an opportunity to get back to the tournament in the current campaign if we do well in our matches.” With the debate over player allowances raging on following skipper Victor Wanyama’s revelations in an interview, the 2019 SJAK/KPL Player of the Year, said he is grateful for receiving a huge bonus before the tournament and revealed that it had helped transform his life. “Despite criticism from some quarters, training in France was a very good idea. It was warm just like in Egypt and it gave a conducive environment to prepare. “Furthermore, the bonus was very good and motivating for the players. This is the kind of money you receive once in your lifetime and it can help you to change your life completely,” he remarked. Onyango has also revealed that there is currently no update on his future with his current contract at Gor running out in December. Meanwhile, Yanga and Harambee Stars goalkeeper Farouk Shikalo has admitted that earning big bonuses on their way to last year’s Africa Cup of Nations finals in Egypt was a major motivation for the players. With each player in the squad assured of at least Sh750,000, Shikalo said the money has changed their lives forever. “Since I started playing football, I have never received such an amount of money and I don’t think that applies to me only. We were lucky to have been among those who earned the highest amount of bonuses ever while representing the national team,” he said. Shikalo said the money helped him finish the construction of his mother’s house which had stalled for some time. “When you get such kind of money, you want it to make a difference in your life and to remember the occasion. For me, it helped me finish off a number of projects and one of them was to complete the construction of my mother’s house,” he explained. Shikalo is also grateful for the high-level training the team had in France prior to the tournament in Egypt. 