The recent spat between Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen and his National Assembly counterpart Aden Duale seems to have exposed the deep-rooted bad blood between the two Houses. Last week, two members of the National Assembly were heard saying they are out to frustrate the Senate. They said that they are going to counter every move Senators make to prove to them that they are a 'useless' house. This, they said, was evident when the National Assembly rushed to amend the Employment Act to bar employers from sacking employees during the Covid-19 period. The Senate had already drafted a Bill that among others, shielded employees from sackings. A recently-retired senior Administration Police officer is in a conundrum as his dirty past seems to be catching up with him. The braggart is facing the ire of those he brutalised and grabbed land from. His victims have embarked on a process to make him pay for his deeds. Some of the residents in Nairobi's Embakasi area are compiling documentation of their grabbed properties for presentation to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. It seems the man who also is said to have grabbed various parcel of government lands built his wealth on quicksand. An internal auditor in a county in Nyanza was shocked after DCI detectives rejected an offer of Sh10 million to compromise a report on nepotism in the hiring of staff by senior officials in the county. The auditor who was acting on behalf of a notorious syndicate in the county was arrested after he took a parallel list of employees to the detectives to snitch on an official they wanted to sacrifice. The detectives, who were on the ground to consolidate evidence, trashed the list and handcuffed the auditor. A former legislator from one of the Maasai counties is broke. The man, according to our mole has lost much weight over what is believed to be stress caused by huge debts. With nowhere to get money, the former MP has been seeking the attention of his governor for tenders and other business favours without success. Those in the know say he is opposing the county’s plans to establish a new dumpsite just so that he is given something by the governor in exchange for his silence. 