  The recently created job creation initiative for informal settlements across the country will benefit at least 10,600 youths in Mathare, Kibera, Mukuru and Korogocho. The initiative - Kazi Mtaani and National Hygiene Programme ( NHP) - was announced by President Uhuru Kenyatta on April 25 as one of the economic stimulus measures for informal settlements in Nairobi, Mombasa, Kiambu, Kisumu, Nakuru, Kilifi, Mandera and Kwale against the coronavirus pandemic. The first phase of Kazi Mtaani was launched last week. It will involve the jobless in urban hygiene and sanitation works in 23 informal settlements countrywide. "I am profoundly conscious of the economic and livelihood distress many Kenyans are feeling. This is why we are going to continue to roll out initiatives that offer relief, particularly to the youth and families in distress, “ the President said. On Monday, State Department of Housing and Urban Development Principal Secretary Charles Hinga said the NHP would provide twin benefits in the face of the Covid-19 pandemic. "The Kazi Mtaani NHP has been conceptualised to provide social relief by providing jobs and facilitating hygiene interventions to help contain the Covid-19 pandemic in informal urban settlements," Hinga said. The Kazi Mtaani is a labour-intensive public works programme set out to provide immediate job opportunities for more than 26,000 Kenyans. The beneficiaries earn daily wages payable at least twice a week through mobile money transfers. They are engaged in sanitation and environment preservation duties such as garbage collection, bush clearing, drainage unclogging, and cleaning, fumigating and disinfecting access paths and streets. Housing secretary Patrick Bucha, who co-chairs the technical implementation committee, said the initial challenges of recruitment, registration and supervision have been overcome and "it is now all systems go for the next 18 days". Hinga said the Kazi Mtaani/NHP concept is the provision of social relief through job opportunities and hygiene facilitation to help contain the Covid-19 pandemic in informal urban settlements. The PS spoke when he, Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia and Nairobi Metropolitan Services director-general Mohammed Badi received two Isuzu water bowsers and garbage compactor at General Motors office in Industrial Area. "These water bowsers will come in handy in the Nairobi settlements by providing easy access to potable water for households' distribution and watering of trees planted on the reclaimed Nairobi River riparian land," Hinga said. The NHP initiative is an extended public works project aimed at providing employment and daily wages for low-income workers engaged in the improvement of infrastructure and service delivery in informal settlements. The economic stimulus programme targets men and women above 18 years resident in informal settlements. Phase One of the NHP will provide employment to more than 30,000 youths in the next month. The anti-coronavirus containment strategies have affected economic activity, especially in Nairobi and Mombasa, making it difficult for those dependent on daily jobs to pay for their basic needs.  The targeted eight counties have the highest numbers of confirmed Covid-19 cases in the country. Nairobi had by Monday 288 cases, Mombasa 158, Kiambu 5, Nakuru 2, Kilifi 9, Mandera 8 and Kwale 2. Kibera and Mathare in Nairobi had at least one case each. President Kenyatta on April 25 extended the cessation of movement in Mombasa, Kwale, Kilifi and Nairobi by 21 days. Nairobi and Mombasa have continued to account for the highest number of confirmed Covid-19 cases nationwide.  - mwaniki fm