When it comes to making payments to employees, employers prefer dealing with banks. For some of the employees, it will take them a long time to access the money and they will have to wait for up to three working days. There is a solution where Apps have been developed to enable employers to be able to pay their employees to get their money instantly. Due is one of the applications which is useful for freelancers and small business owners. It allows users to start accepting secure online payments for a 2.7 per cent transaction rate. It also accepts global payments that occur within two business days as well as a digital wallet for sending and receiving money from anyone in the world instantly with little to no cost. It also has an e-bank where one can store their cash online. The payments through the app are secure through PCI compliance, Encrypted transactions, fraud monitoring and alert tools, proprietary security features built using Blockchain and ongoing and automatic security technology upgrades to our payments platform. For those using Apple devices you need not to worry as there is Apple Pay where transactions are faster and more secure since it uses touch ID confirmation. This means that you can pay for your meals and items through the use of a fingerprint. You can be able to pay on the web by making purchases on the web in Safari on your iPhone or Mac without having to create an account or fill out lengthy forms. You can use Apple Pay to get paid or pay in messages or by asking Siri. Since there is no app to download, you can use the cards you already have in Wallet. You can be assured of your security as it uses a device-specific number and unique transaction code meaning your number is never stored on your device or Apple servers. Even when you make payments your card numbers are not shared by Apple with merchants. Google Wallet is another online payment that allows users to send safe, simple and speedy money transfers from their browsers, smartphone or Gmail account. If you are an employer then no need for IOUs or bank transfers to pay your employees you only need their email addresses and phone number when paying through Google Wallet. Just like any other online payment solution app, they protect their users with powerful built-in security technologies that help detect and block threats such as malware, spam and viruses. Google also shares these security technologies with partners and competitors, raising the industry standards that helps to keep users safer online. Apart from using Mpesa and banks, employers can think of other safer ways to pay their employees by using such apps to improve productivity and motivation at the office.