Nairobi City Stars’ chairman Jonathan Jackson has voiced his excitement after the Kawangware-based side claimed a return to the Kenyan Premier League four years after they were relegated. The side’s early promotion was announced by the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) last week due to the coronavirus threat that saw football being among the sports suspended in the country. “I am totally delighted with the result considering we rose from position 14 to emerge top in the second tier. “I wish to immensely thank the CEO Patrick Korir and coach Sanjin Alagic for their hard work and professional management, and of course, I thank all members of the club, the technical bench and of course the players themselves. “We only achieved this fabulous result as a great team and the senior management who held and drove the team together. Thank you Simba wa Nairobi City Stars team,” said Jackson in a statement. The promotion comes amid the premature end of the league as 26 games had been played and there were 10 more pending. Parts of a statement from FKF on Thursday confirmed that, practically, leagues will not continue hence bringing all seasons in all tiers of leagues to a close. “Following the COVID-19 situation in Kenya and the recent public health regulations announced by the government, including the extension of the ongoing curfew and cessation to May 16, 2020, banning of all public gatherings of more than 15 individuals and the indefinite closure of all stadiums has made it untenable to conclude the 2019/2020 league season in time for the kickoff of the 2020/2021 season,” said FKF on Thursday. The statement added: “The extraordinary step has been reluctantly arrived at, in an effort aimed at safeguarding the well-being, safety and good health of the thousands of football players, technical bench members, fans and the general Kenyan public.” The move is in the light of the aforementioned and is guided by article 2.6.1.2 of the Rules and Regulations governing Kenyan football. The rule states: “Where the league format due to circumstances of force majeure fails to be completed within the season, the league winner shall be determined as follows.” On the other hand, where all the clubs in the league have completed the first round fixture but less than 75 per cent league games have been played, the table standings at the end of the first round shall be considered as the final table standing of the league. At the close of the 18 games in the first leg that ended in December, City Stars had accumulated 43 points from 13 wins and four draws and had a seven-point buffer over second-placed Bidco United who are also promoted. Vihiga United beat Nairobi Stima to playoff.