The country is staring at a looming crisis after a section of health workers issued a nationwide strike notice over what they termed biased promotion in the sector. The unions and societies representing nurses, clinical officers, pharmacy technologists, nutritionists, laboratory technicians and other health professionals gave a 14-day strike notice protesting government’s move to only promote doctors, leaving out other professionals in the critical sector. The health workers are expected to go on strike on May 18 after efforts to get the matter addressed by ministry officials hit a snag. The industrial action will worsen the situation in public hospitals across the country which are currently grappling with the the spread of Covid-19. “The government has remained adamant and this leaves the unions with no choice but to take action. Our strike will kick off on May 18, 2020 if the government will not get back to us,” Kenya Health professional Society chairman Mohammed Duba said. “It is within our knowledge that the ministry of Health has promoted one cadre and leaving others which we find very demoralising and discriminatory and negatively affects our members since most of them, especially specialists are performing duties that are outside their job description as per their current job group and in reference to schemes of service..” Kenya National Union of Nurses (Knun) General Secretary Seth Panyako described the government move as a direct provocation of other health workers who are the main front line workers in the fight against coronavirus in the country. “KNUN is solidly behind the strike and we will ensure that we are respected as we are supposed to. Ministry of Health is focused on provoking front line workers. Of all health workers who are currently infected, 10 are nurses while doctors are only two,” Panyako said. “Mr President we support but we cannot take the Miniostry of Health provocation of only promoting one cadre of health professionals.” The workers however affirm that they are still open to talks with the ministry to avert the looming strike. Kenya Union of Clinical officers Secretary General George Gibore said they will have no problem engaging the government within the notice period. Apart ffrom the promotion, the health workers also demand a harmonized Sh30,000 monthly risk allowance across all health professionals. Currently, some health professionals receive as low as Sh3,000 in risk allowance.