 The Nyeri county government has launched a kitty to raise funds to feed needy families and vulnerable groups to cushion them from the impacts of the coronavirus pandemic. Governor Mutahi Kahiga said the Nyeri Covid-19 Fund has a multi-sectoral committee with members drawn from both the county and national government. Well-wishers are also included in the team. County commissioner and the Nyeri central deputy county commissioner Joseph Mwangi are members in the committee. Others are the Kenya Red Cross Society, Kenya National Chambers of Commerce and Industry (KNCCI) officials, Kenya Secondary School Heads Association (KESSHA), Nyeri Asian Community and local business community. The account will have various signatories from the partners mentioned for accountability, Kahiga said. Money raised will also be used to buy food to feed those whose businesses have been closed and those living in slums. “There are people who really need food out there and therefore in the next one or two weeks, we will be required to feed them,” the governor said. He estimated that over 200,000 residents may be at risk of starvation following the coronavirus pandemic. An account has been opened at the Cooperative Bank under the name: Nyeri Covid-19 Fund. The account number is 01141991686400. The fund has also opened a paybill number: 400222 and account number 562706. Kahiga said he has committed 30 per cent of his three months’ salary to the account and that county executives were expected to donate 10 per cent of their salaries. Other senior staff of the county government will donate five per cent of their earnings to the account. He called on other people of goodwill within and outside the county to donate to the fund. “Now is the time to touch the lives of the people. It is the time to touch the less fortunate,” Kahiga said. The county government, he announced, will put into the account Sh10 million which will go towards purchase of food, saying the needy ought to have a continuous supply of food. KNCCI chairman for the Nyeri branch Ibrahim Ndegwa asked residents not to politicise the kitty. He said people should not see the kitty as an initiative of a particular individual saying it is a plan for everyone to join their synergy to see that the pandemic is contained. “I am sure this can happen if we decide that nobody will take this credit but we are all of us fighting something that none of us can be able to win without working together,” Ndegwa said. Mwangi said the committee will be working on a way to ensure food distribution does not cause people to scramble to get the donations. He said the national government will work with the county government to ensure that the right people are identified to benefit. “We are going to identify the vulnerable people. You know there are so many people who need food. Even those who are doing business and the businesses are not doing well,” the administrator said.  Edited by Peter Obuya