Transparency International has urged the government to explain how Sh1.3 billion has been utilised in the fight against Covid-19. Documents from the Ministry of Health show Sh42 million was used to lease 15 ambulances at Sh2.8 million each. Some Sh10.1 million was set aside for tea and snacks for teams involved in the fight against the virus, out of which Sh4 million has been spent. The government used Sh9 million to print travelers’ quarantine and discharge forms against the initial budget of Sh900, 000. The expenditure is from Sh1 billion donated by the World Bank for emergency response. According to the documents, the approved budget was Sh976.8 million. However, Sh1.3 billion has been spent since the outbreak was confirmed mid-March. The government said the funds were used for the intended purpose. Acting Transparency International executive director Sheila Masinde said in a statement on Friday that more clarification was needed to assure Kenyans that the funds were utilised prudently and for the intended purpose.  She said questions had been asked about the funds raised so far under the Covid-19 Emergency Response Fund and the disbursement to counties to aid in dealing with the Covid-19 crisis. "We urge Parliament to demand detailed information in regard to the expenditure presented to the National Assembly by the Ministry of Health and other measures to enhance transparency and accountability," she said. Masinde said public entities managing public funds during the period must do so in a transparent and accountable manner. "This should include following procurement procedures as dictated by the law and making this information publicly available to enhance oversight at national and county levels," she said. Masinde said government entities must adopt open information systems accessible online, as the physical presence of officials to account to parliamentarians may not always be possible under the current circumstances. She said all expenditures incurred in Covid-19 response efforts must be subjected to internal audits and instituting necessary remedial measures to safeguard against any mismanagement or loss of public money. Masinde said the appointment of the Auditor General is long overdue as it may affect many oversight processes in the long-run. She said other critical concerns raised in relation to enhancing transparency and accountability in dealing with the Covid-19 crisis were yet to be addressed. The concerns include lack of clear transparency and accountability measures in prioritisation, allocation, disbursement and expenditure of resources; open procurement processes and price controls for Covid-19 specific pharmaceutical products. There is no comprehensive public information portal on Covid-19 funds accessible to the public with all information including budgeting, allocation and utilisation at both national and county levels. Masinde said there was a need for meaningful participation of critical stakeholders in dealing with the Covid-19 crisis, including NGOs and other special interest groups to enhance oversight. She said the use of quarantine facilities as detention centres for individuals caught breaking the law negates the progress being made to contain the spread of the virus. "These actions also put other citizens in danger whereas they are in quarantine facilities as a result of other safeguard measures through contact tracing and voluntary submission to testing," she said. Edited by Henry Makori