 The Garissa county government has listed 10,000 vulnerable households to be given relief food during Ramadhan. Muslims worldwide are marking the holy month of Ramadhan between April 23 and May 23. Garissa Deputy Governor Abdi Dagane said on Tuesday the programme will also incorporate flood victims and families whose livelihoods have been adversely affected by Covid-19. He spoke when he received a donation of 110 bales of wheat flour from the Gulf African Bank. "We have listed 10,000 households who will receive food and non-food rations during the holy month of Ramadhan," Dagane said. "We shall also expand the list to include victims of the floods. With our partners, we will ensure everyone in need gets help." Dagane has also appealed to corporate entities, people of goodwill and non-governmental organisations to donate funds and material support to the County Emergency Response Committee. He said thousands of residents displaced by floods in the county are in dire need of food aid. According to the Kenya Red Cross, 2,500 families in Garissa Township, Balambala and Fafi subcounties have been displaced by the floods. "When people are at war, they don't fight alone. Hence, we need to fight together and that is why we are asking for your help. Our immediate priorities include continuing the war against the coronavirus while also ensuring flood victims are taken care of as we await for the waters to recede," Dagane said.  Dagane urged well-wishers to channel their contributions through the committee to avoid duplication and wastage. Elsewhere, Galbet MCA Abdirizak Ismail has asked the county government to distribute face masks to flood victims in various camps. Abdirizak whose ward is among the worst-hit, also urged the public health department to enhance hygiene in the camps, noting that they could be fertile ground for the spread of the coronavirus. “Social distancing is a big challenge in crowded camps. The public health department has a duty to educate the victims on the guidelines to prevent the spread of the coronavirus,” Abdirizak said.  Edited by A.N 