Some 30 needy families in Mtwapa will benefit form a feeding programme by a Dubai-based company that seeks to help alleviate poverty in Africa. The families in Kilifi county were selected from the Mtomondoni Scheme A in Mtwapa, after a successful pitch by their son Suleiman Ngala. The programme is sponsored by Rach Group of Companies through the Rach Family Trust. Ngala, who was born and brought in the scheme, where one is considered extremely lucky to get two meals a day, said he met the sponsors through the internet. “I was surfing the net one day when I came across an article about the Rach Family Trust. I was impressed and contacted them because of our situation at home,” Ngala told the Star on Friday. It was a lucky breakthrough for Ngala, his family and the other Mtomondoni Scheme A families. Ngala, who was selected as the Trust representative in Kenya, on Friday distributed food supplies to the 30 selected families. “This is a miracle to us. I do not know how to thank those Wazungus for their help. I have not had a proper meal for three days now,” Karisa Charo, a 71-year-old, said. His wife left him years back and has had to look after his five grandchildren alone. He lost his son and daughter to a tragic accident in 2012 and has had to look after their children. Ngala told the Star each family will be fed for a month. “And this programme will be continuous. The Trust will be taking care of the families even after this coronavirus pandemic is over,” said Ngala. The families will be getting food and other essential items that will last them a month, on a monthly basis for at least three years. The multi-million shilling programme targets 1,000 families in Mombasa, Kilifi and Lamu in the next three years. Ngala said the orphans, elderly and widows are prioritised when searching for the families that qualify for the initiative. “This is like a pilot programme. Depending on its success, the trust will then increase the number of families to be supported gradually until the target of 1,000 families is met,” he told the Star. The Rach Family Trust director Nabina Bishwakarma and her fiance Ravi Rach, who is the CEO of the Rach Group of Companies, said they are looking forward to helping more families in Kenya. Bishwakarma, who has been to Kenya, says she fell in love with the country and plans to make it her annual holiday destination. The Rach Family Trust has been helping the people of India, Pakistan, Malawi, Zambia and Nepal and this is the first time they involved in the relief donations in Kenya. Edited by E.Kibii