  The government will from Monday take over the management of Peninah Bahati’s newfound wealth to protect her cash in Equity bank and M-Pesa accounts. Bahati is the Mombasa widow who boiled stones for her children in Kisauni’s Junda area because of hunger. Authorities say she is emotionally exhausted and that some conpeople were keen on embezzling her money. Bahati's story was highlighted by both local and international media, attracting sympathy from well-wishers who have since contributed food, cash and other household items. On May 7, Bahati lost her four-month-old last born daughter Mary Kaingu. The loss has left her very devastated. It is also said that her newfound wealth has caused a misunderstanding between her and her in-laws. The in-laws have accused her friend Priscah Momanyi of being behind their strenuous relationship. Momanyi broadcasted Bahati's plight to the world by sharing her video as she boiled stones. Momanyi on Sunday told the Star she has been looking out for the well-wishers to help her neighbour. She denied the accusations from Bahati's in-laws saying they were only looking for her after getting wind of her fortune. “The things I have gone through if I hadn’t done psychology I would have dropped dead,” Momanyi told the Star on the phone. She had been accused of micromanaging Bahati’s accounts and denying anyone, including Bahati’s firstborn daughter Dama Kaingu, 22, access to the funds. But Momanyi said she cannot allow anyone to access to the money, saying there were people trying to use Dama to get Bahati’s M-Pesa details to access the cash. “Even myself, I don’t know how much money is in the account. But now the whole village wants that money,” Momanyi said. “I don’t want to interfere with that family.” Muslims for Human Rights gender and children officer Topister Juma said there have been complaints that Bahati and her family could not access her cash. “That is why there is need for another meeting to get things straightened out. Right now everyone is accusing everyone of everything,” Juma said. She said all the drama that Bahati has gone through has left her emotionally drained. “That woman needs peace of mind. She has gone through a lot in a short span and that is not good for her health,” Juma said. On Saturday, Kisauni deputy county commissioner Jamleck Mbuba told the Star he will be meeting Bahati, Momanyi and other people involved so he could get to the bottom of the matter. Word has reached county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo that there might be people trying to benefit from the money sent to Bahati by well-wishers. “It has been brought to my attention that an account was opened for her through the assistance of Bahati and money has been deposited to the account by well-wishers. “Surprisingly, Bahati is not aware of the current status of her account. The money has not assisted her in any way and at the moment Momanyi has disappeared,” Kitiyo wrote to Mbuba, asking him to investigate the matter. However, Momanyi said she did not disappear. She said people were used to seeing her at Bahati’s place the whole day but for the four days after Bahati buried her child in Kaloleni, she went to her house only in the evenings. “That is why people said I disappeared,” she explained. Mbuba said after getting to the bottom of the matter, the government will decide how best to move forward. “Right now I want to hear from all parties involved,” the administrator said. 