Government is considering extending the curfew within Nairobi Central Business District to start at 3pm  in a couple of weeks’ time. This is after activities within the Nairobi’s CBD started going back to routine with many businesses starting to operate at full capacity. The move is meant to stop the spread of coronavirus which has left 26 people dead. “People are not obeying the government directives. They are washing hands and sanitizing but are not keeping social distance,” County Executive Committee Member for Health Hitan Majevdia said. “I cannot confirm if we will have the 3pm curfew but I can assure Kenyans that we will have stricter rules to address the pandemic," he added. A spot check by the Star established that life in Nairobi is slowly crawling back to normalcy following the number of traffic jams across major city roads. There were also a number of businesses reopening and many people crowding in the town. The hawkers were back on the streets. “The government knows well that if it closes the town by 3pm very few people will go to town...curfew can also be extended within the estates,” a top official in the Ministry of Health said. Majevdia said the lockdown in the populous Eastleigh area in Nairobi and Old Town in Mombasa will be extended in all the estates that have failed to follow the laid down directives. The County Executive Committee Member said the move is meant to wipe out Covid-19 in Nairobi so that life goes back to normal as soon as possible. “The president has powers and if people don’t follow the small rules, I can assure you that the laws will be strict,” he said. “The next estate lockdown will be announced at 7pm so that people don’t move out. Some people took advantage to leave Eastleigh early. This times things will be done in a different way,” he said. His remarks comes at a time the country has confirmed 582 positive  since March 13 and 190 have recovered. Nairobi’s Kawangware, Eastleigh and Ruaka estates have continued to report more cases in the capital city. “We were doing well until people started taking things lightly,” he said.