Education stakeholders should be consulted before school reopening dates and other modalities are announced, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has said. Kalonzo said Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha should reach out to teachers and lecturers' unions, the human rights commission and the Covid-19 Education Response Committee he appointed for their take. In a statement, Kalonzo said Magoha should reach an amicable solution to the stalemate concerning the reopening dates. “I make this call particularly for the sake of the millions of our pupils and students who stand to lose heavily if the brinkmanship and grandstanding between the two sides continue,” he said. The Wiper boss said the two sides can come to a compromise and “spare our young learners the push and pull, otherwise, it will be the grass [learners] who will suffer as the two bulls fight!” Head teachers have cautioned against rushing to reopen schools during the coronavirus pandemic. Kenya Primary School Heads Association chairperson Nicholas Gathemia said schools' reopening should be informed by data from the Ministry of Health and other government agencies. Gathemia said cases of Covid-19 in the country are increasing daily. Infectious disease epidemiologist Mark Nanyingi said Covid-19 cases are likely to shoot if schools and social places are reopened too soon. Kalonzo, however, said he believed it is time to reopen Kenya to save the economy from total collapse. “Following the advisory by the World Health Organization that Covid-19 could be with us for a long time, it is clear that countries cannot be in curfews and lockdown forever,” he said. He said Kenyans should, however, continue to strictly adhere to the primary guidelines from the government. Wearing of masks, washing hands, use of sanitiser and keeping social distance should continue, Kalonzo said. “I believe, too, that the government will soon be issuing further guidelines concerning this matter. All in all, let's maintain optimism and discipline so as to overcome this pandemic,” he said. He added: “As we resume our normal activities, we should do so with lots of caution, lest we let down our guard, with catastrophic consequences.” (edited by o. owino)