@alalmaurice  The Kenya Climate-Smart Agriculture project has been launched in Kisumu county with cheques worth Sh56 million given to various groups. The money is channeled through community common interest groups and vulnerable and marginalised groups targeting value chains for growing of indigenous chicken, cassava, and sorghum. Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o said varieties of the food crops and chicken are drought-tolerant, nutritious, and widely adapted to unfavourable environmental conditions. The KCSAP focuses on increasing agricultural productivity, enhancing resilience to impacts of climate change and reduction greenhouse gas emissions. In a speech read on his behalf by Deputy Governor Mathews Owili, Nyong’o said the project is supported by the World Bank in partnership with the national government. Kisumu is one of the 24 counties benefiting from the project. Nyong’o said the project objective is to increase agricultural productivity and build resilience to climate change risks in targeted smallholder farming. The long term agenda is to transition the county from a net importer of food to one that is food sufficient for both local consumption and the export market, the governor said. Nyong'o said he was committed to expanding the knowledge and skills of farmers to transform agriculture from the low-income sector to a vibrant industry. This, he said, will be realised by supporting value addition through scientific and technological innovation, improved extension services, and credit provision. “We must transform agriculture from the old man’s job to a career of choice. We have identified the smallholder farmers as the key drivers to our food security strategy,” Nyong’o said. The governor urged farmers to expand production of these crops and livestock for sustainable food security. “This will ensure that we do not only produce healthy foods but those that can transcend the export markets,” he said. Kisumu county targets 22,000 direct project beneficiaries who will be reached through CIGs and VMGs for micro projects, climate-smart agriculture investments, and Public-Private Partnerships. Each one of the groups will receive between Sh700,000 and Sh1 million for their identified micro-projects. Nyong’o said seven water-related sub-projects worth Sh150 million have been approved for funding and implementation under KCSAP in addition to the micro-projects. The projects include the construction of irrigation systems to water pans for agricultural production. Nyong’o, however, warned that they will not hesitate to move in and recover money from groups that will not adhere to the set guidelines. He challenged stakeholders to address prevailing challenges to enhance agricultural production and ensure food security for all residents. Nyong’o urged the beneficiaries to use the opportunity to adopt the new technologies and utilise them for enhancing production. KCSAP will also contribute to the food and nutrition security pillar by reducing the cost of food as a percentage of income and job creation and increasing average daily income through investments.  