Deputy President William Ruto’s allies have blasted President Uhuru Kenyatta for ‘militarising’ state agencies. Their remarks have further exposed the frosty relationship between the two leaders. The DP’s men have assailed the head of state, terming his decision the worst form of violation and overturn of the Constitution. Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen, a Ruto confidant, led the team in sending verbal missiles to Uhuru over the decision to second military and intelligence officers to civilian entities. “I would never have imagined when we passed the Constitution 2010. It is a shock that active military men who are supposed to operate in barracks and the borders of Kenya are running civilian governments,” Murkomen said. Uhuru has had a penchant for appointing military and intelligence officials to civilian positions. More than 10 top officials from the military and the National Intelligence Service (NIS) have joined the civil service in the past six years. The latest of such appointments was the secondment of seven senior Kenya Defence Forces officers to the newly created Nairobi Metropolitan Service to oversee the implementation of four functions transferred from Nairobi county to the national government. The Kenya Defence Council, a top KDF organ, ratified the deployment of the military officers to the NMS for two years. The council also sent two top army officers to the Ministry of Health. The seven military officers included Major General Mohamed Badi, the director general of the NMS. Before his appointment, Badi was a senior director at the National Defence College in charge of Kenya Air Force staff training. Other officers were Brig. F. Leuria, Major J.V Mbithi, Major A.N Nyakundi, Major J. K Njoroge, Lt Col J.K Biomdo and Major A. L Musoma. Col (Dr) F. N Kuria and Lt S.K Mutua were sent to the Health ministry. Murkomen said the militarisation of civilian state bodies is the worst form of violation of the supreme law of the land. “Nairobi has been militarised. It is no longer a civilian government. Nairobi is a military county, something that we would never [have imagined],” he said. “It must be known that I, KM, is opposed to the manner in which Nairobi is being run by military men and many more are being seconded. What the hell is happening in this country? What is going on?” a visibly agitated Elgeyo Marakwet senator said. Soi MP Caleb Kositany and Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei, also close to the DP, said the President now appears to only trust military and intelligence officers. “The President has lost confidence in civilians performing civilian duties. The question now is: who will oversight these military officers?” he posed. Charargei said soldiers are mandated to protect the country from external aggression and stay off from civilian affairs. “The military of Kenya had been respected all over the world because it had stayed off civilian matters but that admiration is being eroded now. It is so sad that Nairobi is being made a military zone,” he stated. He urged the military to keep off devolution matters and issues concerning civilians. “There could be plans to intimidate the leadership of Nairobi county,” he added. Last December, Uhuru appointed Nicodemus Musyoki Ndalana, an intelligence officer, the regional coordinator for Northeastern. Ndalana was previously the assistant director in charge of border control at the NIS. The President picked Ndalana to replace Mohamed Birik, who was recalled to Harambee House, Nairobi. Those previously picked from the military and intelligence are Inspector-General of Police Hillary Mutyambai, Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission CEO Twalib Mbarak, Director of Immigration Services Alexander Muteshi and Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji. Haji, Mbarak and Muteshi were all serving as deputy directors at the NIS before their appointments. Mbarak had served with the military intelligence before moving to the NIS. The President’s actions also attracted condemnations from other politicians outside the DP’s circle. Senators Moses Wetang'ula (Bungoma) and Mutula Kilonzo Jr (Makueni) said Uhuru violated the Constitution. “It is normally inadvisable to militarise civilian work. I don’t know the intention of sending military men to Nairobi, but the role of the military, even under our Constitution, is very distinct, very clear. It is for the protection and defence of the territorial integrity of our country,” Wetang'ula said. "Execution of civil authority under our Constitution is left in civilians' hands. And I know for sure, the President doesn’t have a shortage of good civilians qualified and with integrity to do that job.” The lawmaker wants Parliament to summon relevant Cabinet Secretaries to explain the ‘worrying trend’ of militarising state agencies.  (Edited by F'Orieny)