Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya has scoffed at DP William Ruto’s allies saying the reorganisation of Jubilee party by President Uhuru Kenyatta is not a target on any tribe. Munya also chided the DP saying he was a stumbling block through “misleading MPs and senators, making the Jubilee administration look disorderly, unfocussed and ungovernable”. Two political outfits had emerged within Jubilee party, one allied to DP Ruto called Tangatanga and another to Uhuru, Kieleweke. Speaking to Coffee Farmers Society leaders at Meru Coffee Millers premises on Saturday, Munya said the President has not broken any law and it is an exercise of his powers and democracy. “You can’t say Uhuru is killing democracy when you are allowing MPs to fight the President’s agenda and service delivery. Presidents are respected all over the world. But here in Kenya, you allow MPs to fight the party leader, is that democracy?” the CS asked. Adding.”How should I remain silent if my CAS is disrespecting me and generating a fight against me? I could purge on him. The Constitution is for all Kenyans and not an individual.” Munya said the impeachment of Senate Deputy Speaker Kithure Kindiki on Friday was justified because he (Kindiki) had defied the party leader. On Friday, 54 out of 67 senators supported Kindiki's removal motion. Those who supported Kindiki included senators Kipchumba Murkomen of Elgeyo Marakwet, Susan Kihika of Nakuru, Samson Cherargei of Nandi, Aaron Cheruiyot of Kericho, Christopher Lang'at of Bomet and Meru's Mithika Linturi. Kindiki was once touted as the DP's possible 2022 running mate and his removal is a staggering blow to Ruto. “When they are removed from strategic political appointments for disrespect and disobedience, they claim it is a political witch hunt targeting some tribes. Why divert Uhuru housecleaning to be Mt Kenya East issue? When you rectify, you may get another post,” Munya said. He said the ouster of senators Murkomen and Kihika as Majority leader and Whip respectively was a clear indication the head of state is cleaning the House so that he can achieve tangible developments and leave a legacy. The two were the DP's lieutenants in Parliament. They were replaced by Samuel Poghisio of West Pokot and Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata, respectively. Munya said everyone must carry their own cross and toe the line. Edited by R.Wamochie