Are there fresh plans to reconcile President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto? A source within the presidency has told Corridors that a team of religious leaders are leading behind the scenes negotiations to try and have the two Jubilee leaders call a truce. The reconciliation plans are said to be at an advanced stage and the two could have a handshake as soon as early June. Just when you thought it's over with the senior traffic cop from Rift valley with an insatiable appetite for bribes, we have been informed that he rewarded all his tribesmen in the bogus transfers deal. Our insider tells us that the transfers in the last one month numbering 20 of officers commanding traffic in bases are from his tribe. Worst still is that most are couples reported to have bribed their way. Surprisingly, our mole says, the transfers, are not reflected at the Vigilance house and the said officer is said to be bragging of how he enjoys protection of a former GSU boss at Vigilance. Aggrieved officers are now demanding investigations done on the officer and all his transactions nullified. They said if the transfers are not reversed they will not hesitate to go on a go-slow and even frustrate the particular officers in their duties. Kenyan and Tanzanian citizens have gone to war, albeit on social media, over the closure of the borders in the fight against Covid-19. What started as a diplomatic row between senior government officials of the two countries has now degenerated to a full-scale cyberwar between citizens of the two nations. Both sides are clearly spoiling for an online fight as the two groups hurl insults at each other, stating why they think their country is better and the other is is hopeless and disease-ridden. A heavily inebriated police officer driving a car attached to the ministry of Lands shocked other motorists when he attacked a colleague in road rage. The visibly drunk officer blocked his colleague’s car along Langata Road, got out of his vehicle and attacked his offender with kicks and blows. The commotion attracted other officers on patrol who restrained and arrested the assailant. Normally, police would be expected to line up charges including assault and causing an obstruction on public road but that may not be the case. A senior officer in Langata whispered to Corridors that the disgraceful man may not have a day in court because the matter had been handled internally.