An animal protection lobby has launched a campaign calling for an end to wildlife trade, with reports suggesting the coronavirus may have come from bats. The campaign by World Animal Protection asks G-20 leaders to back a permanent wildlife trade ban to prevent future pandemics linked to animals. The G20 members are Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Mexico, ​Republic of Korea​,​ Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, ​​​Turkey, the United Kingdom, the United States and the European Union (EU)​. The coronavirus is thought to have originated from a wet market in Wuhan, China, where wild animals were sold. Some studies suggest the virus came from bats and moved to humans via an intermediary animal, potentially a pangolin. A scaly anteater, the pangolin is the most illegally traded mammal in the world. Tennyson Williams, country director at World Animal Protection said multi-billion-dollar businesses have been exploiting wild animals on a global scale and what is being witnessed is the true cost of that. "This pandemic isn’t just about wild animals being sold for food. It’s much bigger than that. It's about greed and the commodification of wild animals at every level," he said. Williams said there is an urgent need to persuade the G20 to take steps towards implementing a global wildlife ban to protect the world from future pandemics. Kenya has been at the forefront of calls for a total ban on wildlife trade. There is a need for coordinated, global action and this ban could save the lives of millions of people, animals and our economies, he said. “If we learn anything from this situation, it is that we need to leave wild animals where they belong, in the wild. We all have a responsibility to make a shift in our behaviour and attitudes towards animals that could save the lives of millions of people, animals and our economies. “If we don’t purchase exotic pets or traditional medicine that contains wild animal products and don’t visit venues with performing animals, we will send a clear message that wildlife cruelty is no longer tolerable – for the animals, our health and the planet," he said. Williams said his organisation has a strong track record of supporting local communities to transition from incomes based on wildlife cruelty. On 8 July, G20 leaders reaffirmed their commitment to addressing illegal trade in wildlife and wildlife products, particularly through combating corruption after a meeting in Hamburg, Germany. The leaders said, “We will intensify our fight against corruption related to illegal trade in wildlife and wildlife products. Wildlife trafficking is a threat to the planet’s biodiversity, economic development and, among others, health and security and is facilitated by high levels of corruption, which the G20 cannot tolerate." The demand for traditional medicine has devastating consequences for many species of wildlife traded globally, including bears who are poached and farmed for their bile. The organisation said millions of wild animals are captured from their natural habitats and bred in cruel captive conditions to be traded around the world as pets each year. It cited its report ‘Wild at Heart’, exposing the suffering involved with the poaching of African grey parrots. Some estimates report that 66 per cent of African grey parrots die before they even reach international transit. World Animal Protection said approximately 11 million people each year pay to watch elephants perform tricks in Thailand. Another 46 million people have paid to see dolphins at a venue at least once in the last 4 years. It said prices of elephants used for rides have sky-rocketed to over $50,000 and a single dolphin can generate between $400,000 and $2 million per year for entertainment venues such as SeaWorld. (edited by o. owino)