The Kenya National Union of Teachers and civil society organisations have appealed to the government to push national examinations to early 2021. The appeal came a week before the three-month shutdown of schools comes to an end on June 4. In normal times, the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education and the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education examinations are held in October and November. Knut, doctors, academics, and civil society groups warned in a joint report on Wednesday that it was not yet time to re-open schools. Speculation is rife that the government is set to relax some Covid-19 containment measures. However, an assessment of the situation by a team of doctors and public health officials at Moi University College of Health Sciences says that reopening of schools in June will lead to a spike in the coronavirus cases. “We call on the government not to reopen the schools until such a time when the pandemic will be fully contained or brought under manageable levels,” says the report compiled by Prof Florentius Koech, Doctors Mayra Maghasi and Nicholas Kirui, and Preston Yegon. The health experts, who cited examples from Finland, France and South Korea (some of the first countries to re-open schools), said there was a strong correlation between school re-opening and the coronavirus spread. The Effects of Coronavirus Pandemic on Education – Mitigation Measures, Analysis and Recommendations on Re-opening of Schools, Colleges and Universities report dated May 27 focuses on strategies to re-open learning institutions. It is part of a presentation to a nine-member team crafting the roadmap on the possible resumption of school operations. The report co-joins the University Academic Staff Union, Kenya Human Rights Commission, Kenya Medical Practitioners Pharmacists and Doctors Union, Forum for African Women Educationalists – Kenya, and Elimu Tuitakayo Network. It addresses what needs to be put in place before reopening examination classes (Standard 8 and Form 4). Several views were sought on the subject with only 10 per cent of the respondents supporting the current schedule of KCPE and KCSE exams. Twenty per cent wanted the exams to be done between late November and early December while 70 per cent was for the postponement of examinations to 2021. The recommendations of health experts, through the Kenya Medical Practitioners Pharmacists and Dentists Union, said care should be taken when dealing with re-opening of schools. The doctors urged the government to do mass testing for students and teachers of boarding schools before learning resumes. They said day schools should adopt half-day learning, with one group taught in the morning and other in the afternoon. They said hand washing basins should be installed in all classrooms and washing of hands made mandatory before and after every lesson. Further, the doctors called for an elaborate and solid plan on occupational safety and health assessment for all schools. There should also be a periodic risk assessment of teachers based on the World Health Organization guidelines for healthcare workers.  - mwaniki fm