Deputy President William Ruto’s office is among the casualties of massive budget cuts by the National Treasury in the next financial year's proposals. The cuts across all government departments will give the Treasury an additional Sh67 billion from recurrent expenditure alone. The DP's Harambee House Annex is one of the most hit agencies, with its budget for operations cut by more than half. Ruto’s office was allocated Sh1.22 billion in the current financial year but the figure has been slashed to Sh563 million. The office will lose Sh673 million. Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani, in the draft financial year 2020-21 estimates before Parliament, has proposed to slash the DP’s local travel expenses by about Sh100 million. The DP’s hospitality expenses have also been reduced by Sh174 million while foreign travel is set to go down from Sh89 million to Sh33 million. Ruto office’s allocation for fuel and lubricants has also been reduced to Sh14 million from Sh28 million in the current budget. A charge labelled ‘other operating expenses’ has been reduced by Sh204 million while his vehicles will be maintained at Sh11 million – half of the current budget. State House has also been affected by the cuts. The National Treasury has reduced spending for State House by Sh800 million in changes affecting state lodges too. It was allocated Sh2.6 billion in the current year but will make do with Sh1.9 billion should MPs approve the cuts. Treasury has provided less towards Executive’s salaries, operations, and other expenses with the allocation of Sh984 billion compared with Sh1.05 billion for this year. Yatani had pledged to enforce sustained measures to tame state officers’ luxurious spending, now escalated by the Covid-19 pandemic. In the same vein, Treasury has proposed to reduce the cost of running the Cabinet Office by Sh635 million. Following the adjustments, the presidency budget has been scaled down to about Sh3 billion. Allocation to First Lady Margaret Kenyatta’s office has also been reduced from this year’s Sh426 million to Sh238.8 million. The First Lady's domestic travel has been reduced to Sh33 million from Sh71 million; hospitality by Sh100 million among other reductions. Rachel Ruto’s office will also make do without Sh84 million in changes which have seen PSCU budget reduce by Sh50 million. The Treasury has frozen allocations to the Kenya Southern Sudan Liaison office which had received Sh130 million in the current budget. The National Counterterrorism Centre got Sh500 million but is to receive Sh450 million. The Presidential escort team is set to get Sh95 million more. The cuts have mostly targeted hospitality costs, foreign and domestic travel, and purchase of supplies. Yatani proposes to reduce the Fred Matiang’i-led Interior ministry overall budget by Sh1.7 billion, with massive cuts affecting line departments. The Treasury has applied a ‘take from Paul to pay Peter’ approach to the adjustments which would ensure the headquarters make do without Sh980 million next year. County administrators will gain Sh2 billion more while the Administration Police Training College faces Sh1.8 billion funding cut. Yatani has also reduced Nacada budget by Sh47 million while funding for the office of the deputy inspector general in charge of AP has been slashed by Sh300 million. His Kenya Police Service counterpart faces a reduction of about Sh200 million albeit with Nairobi region’s budget increasing to Sh3.7 billion from this year’s Sh2.9 billion. It will cost taxpayers Sh500 million less to provide security to government buildings and offices in Nairobi. Guarding critical infrastructure at regional and county jurisdictions will cost Sh620 million less while those of sub-counties have been cut from Sh21.8 billion to Sh14.5 billion. DCI headquarters will get Sh67 million less while the DCI field services’ budget is set to increase by Sh394 million. Police divisional headquarters have also got a budget boost of Sh5 billion with the Traffic Department set to get Sh220 million more. Inspector General Hillary Mutyambai’s office will get Sh2.1 billion less this year albeit with GSU headquarters operational costs rising by Sh2 billion. Yatani has proposed to have Immigration offices run their budgets independently. Further reductions affect government chemist and the NTSA. The President’s Delivery Unit which was recently moved to the Interior ministry has been allocated Sh205 million. Yatani has also provided Sh4.5 billion towards the leasing programme for government vehicles and other machinery. The newly created Refugee Affairs department will get Sh141 million; being Sh114 million for the headquarters’ recurrent expenses, Sh11 million to the appeals board, and Sh15 million to field services. Much as the Prisons department is set to increase by Sh931 million in the next financial year, some sectors have not been spared the cuts. This is manifested in the Staff Training College’s budget which has been reduced to Sh691 million compared with Sh1.5 billion this year. Regional commands, however, got Sh2.5 billion more and Sh200 million for maximum and high-risk prisons. Medium and district prisons’ budget is set to be reduced by Sh300 million. Yatani’s proposal also shows the devolution ministry will not get funding for relief and rehabilitation of refugees. About Sh1.1 billion was allocated to emergency reliefs last year with Devolution ministry budget slashed by Sh1.14 billion overall. The Foreign Affairs ministry's budget has been reduced by Sh3 billion, affecting the expenditure of various foreign missions. (edited by  o. owino)