DPP Noordin Haji has ordered that Kenya Ports Authority finance manager Patrick Nyoike be charged with graft over Sh214.5 million worth of payments made to a company in which his wife is a manager and brother a director. In a memo dated May 10, Haji said the payments were made to Nayli Capital Ltd (NCL). He said investigations revealed Nyoike used his office to facilitate the inclusion of NCL as one of KPA's suppliers in the vendor portal. "Patrick Wambugu Nyoike facilitated Nyali Capital Limited's micro finance business, to finance the KPA suppliers, Local Purchase Orders  (LPOs)  and  Local  Service  Orders  (LSOs)  and  thereafter utilized the KPA system to have the principal  and the interest  from the said suppliers remitted  to Nyali Capital Limited's account by the KPA," the memo reads. "It is therefore,  clear from the evidence that  Patrick Wambugu Nyoike  abused  his  office by  facilitating  Nyali  Capital  Limited  to finance the KPA suppliers and to receive payments directly from KPA." Haji further said evidence showed there was no contractual relationship  between KPA and Nyali Capital Limited save for letters of undertaking  signed by KPA officers guaranteeing  that  KPA would subtract and remit funds to the account of Nyali Capital Limited from the vendors  financed by the said company. "This fact was known by Isaac   Obunga,    an   employee   of  the   KPA,   who   nevertheless irregularly  defined  Nyali Capital  Limited  as  a vendor  in the  KPA vendor portal," the memo reads. Consequently, Haji has recommended the charging of Nyoike, his wife Jacinta Wambugu, his brother Alfred Hinga, Isaac Obunga (clerical officer, KPA), Peter  Kinyanjui (director, NCL)and Nyali Capital Limited. Last month, former KPA boss Daniel Manduku was acquitted of graft after Haji declined to approve the charges against them. He was accused of unlawfully awarding tenders for the construction of cargo storage facilities at the Nairobi Inland Container Depot (ICD). Manduku resigned last month.