DISCLAIMER: ALL CHARACTERS APPEARING IN THIS WORK ARE FICTITIOUS. ANY RESEMBLANCE TO REAL PERSONS, LIVING OR DEAD, IS PURELY COINCIDENTAL Hawa grew up on the streets. Literally. Not because she was an orphan or that she ran away from home, but because her parents decided there were other things they could be doing besides parenting. She had three sisters. Wema was a little baby, three months old. Permanently strapped to Hawa’s back. An older sister, Angelina, nine years old. A year older than Hawa. Georgie, the third born of the family had just turned six. People often said she was ‘touched’. Not all together in the head. I think it was a lack of proper nutrition and then the trauma of being abandoned so young. Their father was present, yet not. Present because the city council house they lived in was thanks to his job at the council. He was hardly there though. It was whispered that their mother had run away to the coastal town of Mombasa to try and get a better life. In those days, it was widely believed that having a mzungu boyfriend meant that you had hit the jackpot. What better place to cast your net than in a tourist destination? The girls were pitiful. The one-room house was not even self contained. It barely had anything. Just a huge crumbling sponge that used to be a mattress. Stained with urine and God knows what else. They had a dirty blanket and not much else for bedding. The corner that served as a kitchen had a kerosene stove and two pans. Some different coloured plastic plates, one spoon that served as a cooking spoon and an eating spoon and a blunt knife. All dirty. It was really a sad state of affairs. Four girls under the age of ten alone in Nairobi city. The neighbours often felt sorry for them and would give them some leftovers or a packet of milk for baby Wema. Baby Wema, that one was God's baby. How else can you explain her survival? While babies her age were strictly on breast milk, baby Wema was drinking packet milk, right out of the packet, not boiled or anything. People get tired of giving though, and to be fair, their neighbours were not better off. It was a poor community. The four girls had to eat though. They soon found their way to the CBD and realized they could make money begging, and on the days they carried Baby Wema, they made even more. Despite their hardships, Baby Wema was a good-natured girl. Always had a ready smile for a stranger. They, in turn, rewarded her with money or some food. Only Angelina was interested in school. She struggled to get up and make her way to school often on an empty stomach and in torn uniform. Hawa did not mind staying back to either beg or look after the younger siblings. Their father appeared every now and then but only because a neighbour had reported him to the boss for neglecting his kids. He figured showing his face every now and then would quiet the nosy neighbours. When he came he brought a packet of biscuits and a small bottle of juice. Angelina did well in her exams and was accepted in a boarding school for her secondary education. She got a bursary that paid for her uniforms as well. Her sisters were so happy for her. Hawa was left with the younger ones during the school term and she did a very good job with her siblings. She made sure they enrolled in school and continued begging, washing dishes for neighbours and collecting free food from the nearby Catholic church. She was a sharp child but did not see much need for formal education. Angelina finished secondary school and went on to the university to study medicine. Life became a little easier because Angelina used some of her student loans to help her sisters. Growing up on the streets had taught Hawa a thing or two as well. Her knowledge of giving men what they wanted in exchange for money was a welcome contribution to their coffers. By the time Angelina was graduating, Hawa was working at a shop in town selling men's shirts, Georgie had dropped out of school and had given birth and Baby Wema, was no longer a baby, she was a teenager in school making good grades. The girls were not badly off compared to where they had come from. Their mother was still MIA, Hawa had told her younger siblings she was dead. It made it easier for them to move on. Their father remarried and his new wife did not want ‘old’ children. He, however, attended Angelina's graduation and told anyone who cared to listen that his daughter was a doctor. It is at the shop that Hawa worked in that she met Calisto. A very distinguished looking gentleman. He often insisted that she serve him. He bought the most expensive shirts, never bargained and left her very generous tips. Calisto was a sixty-eight-year-old man. Widower. His wife died twenty years ago of cancer. They never had any children. He had spent his life building his businesses and now here he was, wealthy and lonely. He had no family as such and lots of regrets. Calisto was so drawn to Hawa. He could not explain why. She was not a pretty girl. She was ordinary looking, short, fair-skinned with brownish hair that never really grew. Her dressing was ordinary. She only applied petroleum jelly on her face and did to appear to try beyond that. Who could blame her though? Her whole life had been lived in survival mode. Hawa was sharp though. She grasped things very fast. She had a wicked sense of humour that scared and turned you on at the same time. She had a girl like wonder about her. Hawa felt no shame about who she was and where she had come from. Her honesty was fresh in a city where everyone wore a mask. One day, Calisto finally got the nerve to ask Hawa on a date. He wanted to pick her from her house. Hawa accepted and gave him directions to their humble one-roomed house. He went to her house on a Saturday at noon. He had never been to this part of town. Small houses built in a row. Walls that used to be white now covered in soot and graffiti. Women clad in lesos only, walking from outdoor bathrooms to their houses. Children playing with old tyres and mud. He knew she was poor, he just did not know the extent. He parked right in front of Hawa’s house. He knew it was her house because she was standing outside with Georgie and her baby and their youngest sister Wema. As soon as he stopped, they all got into his car and sat at the back. He asked Hawa to sit in the front passenger seat. He had thought he was going on a date with Hawa, alone. Hawa could not pass up an opportunity to feed her siblings and nephew. For free. You should have seen them at the restaurant, pure comedy. The waiter thought they were Calisto’s grandchildren, Wema ordered so much food and tried to eat it all, Georgie ordered tea, coffee, milkshake and soda. Hawa kept trying to use a fork and knife. Calisto was not embarrassed. He was actually touched. After lunch, he took them to the supermarket and asked them to pick anything they wanted. The girls could not believe their luck. They picked everything. In the excitement, they even picked dog biscuits because they thought it meant the biscuits were shaped like dogs! That is how Hawa and Calisto started their relationship. They needed each other. Hawa secretly tried to get pregnant but she never seemed to be able to. She knew having Calisto’s child would seal her place in his life. She decided to consult her older sister. Angelina told her that it was likely Calisto could not father kids given his advanced age, but to be sure her sister had no issues, she sent her sister to a gynecologist. After about six months of dating Calisto, Hawa’s life had changed immensely. They were able to move out of that one room hell hole to a better house, in a better neighbourhood. Calisto’s Mercedes became a fixture at Hawa’s house, but she was anxious, she needed a baby. Her sister advised her to look for a younger man with almost the same features and get pregnant. Hawa was not short of men to choose from. She got pregnant almost immediately. Calisto was beside himself with joy when he found out he was going to be a father for the first time at almost seventy years old. He bought Hawa a house and a car. He employed a driver. Hawa was treated like a queen. Now Calisto was an honorable man and wanted to make an honest woman of Hawa. He looked for her father and paid the dowry. Hawa’s father did not mind that his son in law was much older than him. He gave them his blessing of course after pocketing the dowry. They were then wed at Sheria House and had a small reception after. One morning, Hawa could not wake her husband. She shook him but he just would not get up. They rushed him to the hospital where they were met by his personal doctor. Once they stabilized him, the doctor called Hawa aside. “The cancer is spreading aggressively.” the doctor whispered. “Cancer?” Calisto had not told her that he had been diagnosed with cancer five years ago. They had found a tumour in his brain and from then on it was one cancer after another. Calisto refused any treatment after the surgery to remove the tumour. Hawa walked into her husband's hospital room, he looked so frail. It is funny how hours and information can change how you look at someone. She suddenly felt sorry for him. He was dying and he still chose to love her and her siblings. He literally picked them from the gutter. Now they were respected by all and sundry. He opened his eyes when she touched his arm. “Hi my girl.” He was barely audible. There was a web of tubes and machines ticking and beeping. “I won't make it, I want you to help me” “I won't leave you. Just get better. You will get better.” Hawa murmured as she wrung her hands. Trying not to cry. “Listen to me!” Calisto said in a stern voice. “You don't have to worry, you and your sisters will be well looked after. My time is up. Allow me to go while I still know who I am.” Hawa was now sobbing. Everyone left them. Their parents left them. Now Calisto wanted to go too. She was now kneeling down, her head in her hands. “No, no no, please. You have money, we can go look for medicine anywhere please” “I know the baby is not biologically mine.” she looked up. Stunned. He was smiling. “The reason I never had babies is because I can't. I'm sterile.” Hawa went from grief to shame. She hung her head low. “I will see him before you. You must name him after me. He is my son. The best gift you have given a dying old man. I will continue to live” Hawa was breathless. How did she go from never being loved to being so loved? As she struggled to sit on the chair next to her husband's hospital bed, her older sister, Angelina walked in. She looked so lovely in her white coat, a far cry from her one, torn school uniform. Calisto nodded to acknowledge Angelina’s presence. “Good bye my love. I've lived a thousand years since I met you, now I will live again in our son” Angelina removed a syringe from her coat pocket and emptied the contents in one of the drips. “What are you giving him? What are you doing?” Hawa tried to yank the drip from her husband's arm, but Angelina held her. One of the machines started beeping wildly. Nurses and the doctor ran in. They tried stabilizing him. There was nothing they could do to bring him back. His pressure kept dropping. Calisto was pronounced dead an hour later. Hawa went into early labour. She delivered a boy. When she was told she had a son she cried until they had to sedate her. She had not found out the sex of the baby, but Calisto knew. Calisto had confided in Angelina about his disease. He had wanted Hawa to remember him healthy and happy and not as an invalid. This article was first published on Teakisi: The Voice of African Women.