 The Garissa county government on Saturday ordered the immediate closure of Dagahley Livestock Market in Dadaab to curb the spread of coronavirus. The market is near the border with Wajir county where two Covid-19 cases have been confirmed. Garissa authorities said the closure was prompted by the need to curtail the movement of people between the two counties. Both counties border Somalia where there has been a surge in coronavirus cases. Garissa Deputy Governor Abdi Dagane said the market's closure was part of a wider campaign to upscale the county's preparedness to curbing the spread of the contagion. "The closure is informed by the risk level of the market since traders are known to move across the borders to Wajir and Somalia to acquire stock. The risk of transmission from both human and the procured livestock poses great danger," Dagane said. He spoke to reporters outside his office on Saturday. He said the closure was pursuant to the provision of the public health act that requires authorities to put in place necessary and preventable measures to control such a pandemic. “Our biggest concern is that coronavirus is a zoonotic disease that can be transmitted between humans and animals. We would not wish it to get to that level because it will be disastrous,” he said.  Dagane said the county was exploring other stringent measures to protect residents from infection. The Wajir Covid-19 patients two men aged 36 and 32 from Garissa county who were intercepted at Diif in Wajir South alongside three other persons on their way back from a livestock trade trip to Mogadishu in Somalia. Dagane asked the public to remain vigilant and strictly adhere to all measures put in place by the Health ministry including sanitising hands, wearing face masks and maintaining social distance to curb the spread of the disease. "The county Covid-19 response committee is of the opinion that there is need to upscale our preparedness and prevention. Going forward, residents of Garissa should cooperate with the authorities and heed to the measures put in place,” he said. Health executive Ahmednadhir Omar said the country was facing extraordinary times that might require tough measures to protect the health of the citizens.  Edited by P.O 