United Nations secretary general António Guterres has called upon world leaders and everyone to solidly unite at this period of the novel coronavirus. The UN SG said that the virus affects everyone without caring who we are, where we live and what we believe or about any other distinction. “We need every ounce of solidarity to tackle it together. Yet the pandemic continues to unleash a tsunami of hate and xenophobia, scapegoating and scaremongering,” Guterres said on Friday. He said that anti-foreigner sentiment has surged online and in the streets and that Anti-Semitic conspiracy theories, as well as anti-Muslim attacks, have occurred since the pandemic was reported. The SG said that migrants and refugees have been berated as the source of the virus, which has seen them being denied access to medical treatment. “Migrants and refugees have been vilified as a source of the virus and then denied access to medical treatment. With older persons among the most vulnerable, contemptible memes have emerged suggesting they are also the most expendable,” he said. He added that “Journalists, whistle blowers, health professionals, aid workers and human rights defenders are being targeted simply for doing their jobs.” The SG said that there is a need to strengthen the immunity of our societies against the virus of hate. “We must act now to strengthen the immunity of our societies against the virus of hate. That’s why I’m appealing today for an all-out effort to end hate speech globally,” he said. He has called upon everyone across the globe to stand up against hate and instead to treat each other with dignity and take every opportunity to spread kindness. The media has been asked to do much more to flag and, in line with international human rights law, remove racist, misogynist and other harmful content. Learning institutions have also been asked to focus on digital literacy at a time when billions of young people are online and when extremists are seeking to prey on captive and potentially despairing audiences. Recently, World Health Organisation Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus revealed that he had been receiving death threats and racism attacks. Tedros said that the attacks directed to him are based on his stand to defend Africans at the time when they were being attacked based on colour. “When the black community was insulted, I did not tolerate. I said people are crossing the lines,” Tedros said.