 More than 7,000 residents of Kipini West in Tana Delta have been displaced after their homes were flooded. River Tana has burst its banks and flooded several areas of Tana River county following heavy rains and the overflowing Masinga Dam in Machakos county. Tana Delta subcounty is among the worst affected. It forms the lowland from where River Tana pours its waters into the Indian Ocean. Some households have been swept away leaving locals with nowhere to live. Mwanja, Odhole, Samicha, Kikomo and Handaraku villages are completely submerged. Journalists who toured the area by boat found old men and women and children stranded. About 4,000 residents managed to relocate to Marafa area. The remaining 3,000 are stranded in the flooded villages, putting them at high risk of contracting water-borne diseases. At Mwanja village, residents were yet to resettle after returning to their village only three months ago following a similar disaster in December. Headman Haji Dube said the village has 131 households. He said some people vacated to the Darga Maarafa IDP camp. The rest are unable to vacate because of the distance and the flooded terrain with the threats of crocodiles, hippos and snakes very real. River Tana is crocodile-infested and the reptiles are now roaming freely now that the region if flooded. Dube said those stranded were also hungry. He said 15 houses were swept away with sheep, goats, chicken and cattle. "This area can only be accessed by boat or air. We are in a remote village and have not received any relief support, We need food, mosquito nets, drugs, tents and many more because our problems are many," he said. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa and Governor Dhadho Godhana toured the county using choppers to assess the damage. Dube however said they have recieved nothing from both the national and county governments. Resident Abdulkhadhir Abdulahi Gobu said the floods menace has affected livelihoods. He called on the government and well-wishers to assist the families. ''Our roads are not accessible because of the heavy rains. Those who can access this area are those with choppers and boats, people from our area do not have those facilities,'' Gobu said. Kipini West MCA Musa Wario said the community has suffered for many years. He said floods were a perennial disaster. He said it was also difficult to relocate the people by boat because tress had fallen and blocked the river. ''We had to call divers to clear the way along the river as it was not accessible, these people have no means to move to higher grounds," he said.  Edited by P.O