Supply chain software company MACmobile has launched a new platform that supports live streaming of formal market retail “sales out” data from till points and map relevant stock holding in store simultaneously. This follows a partnership with Cognizance Processing who built the platform and will be available for Kenya wholesalers and retailers. “We are excited to launch this new offering to the Kenyan market. Having a technology that can provide till data to close the loop of the entire supply chain is a game changer,”  Muhoro Gathii, Country Sales manager at MACmobile International, said. He said the partnership will see MACmobile closing the loop on supply chain intelligence. The platform will reflect “sales in” data to retailers while mapping stock holding in the multiple warehouses being used in the distribution supply chain. Daily retail sales feed and basket data feeds (when made available), stock in store and stock at the distribution centre, can be recorded and made available in a live feed to a dashboard. This enables the manufacturer to identify key performance areas against which performance benchmarks are established and deviations reported against. The deviation reporting is live and communication is made to merchandisers and/or retail management on the ground. “Ensuring that products are visible on shelf at all times is the crux of successful manufacturing and retail. However, actual sales and in-store data around execution, pricing, promotional and planogram compliance have always been the challenge," Andrew Dawson,  MACmobile MD, said. He added that the platform can map retails sales per stock keeping unit (SKU), per store, per region, across the country, thus allowing for intelligent stock allocation, reducing returns and wastes and allowing for Just In Time (JIT) manufacturing. This helps n customer satisfaction as demand varies. Headquartered in South Africa, Macmobile started operations in Kenya in March 2019 to serve the Fast Moving Consumer Good segment with its cloud-based value chain solutions and platforms. Edited by E.Kibii