Local medical experts have a clearer picture of Covid-19 infections in Kenya, after studying the disease patterns for the last two months. This insight is expected to inform a better response in the country, where at least 700 people had contracted the infection by Monday. Most Kenyan patients have recovered within days, but a few are still being monitored weeks after they left intensive care units. "There are mild cases that get better within a day or two, others require oxygen for days or weeks," says Rodney Adam, a professor of infectious diseases and microbiology at the Aga Khan University Hospital in Nairobi. The hospital is one of the accredited testing centres and is already taking care of some patients. Prof Adam says experience in the last two months shows hospitals with Covid-19 patients must have oxygen supply. "With supportive care, most patients survive. We give medicines to treat symptoms, but it all depends on the symptoms a patient has. What's key is hospitals must have an oxygen supply for the critical cases," he told the Star on the phone. Prof Adam said positive patients take varying timelines to test negative and recover. Younger people in good health take the shortest time. "Older people with co-morbidities take longer, sometimes two to six weeks or more," he said. By Sunday, 672 people had tested positive, 32 of whom have died, giving a crude death rate of 4.8 per cent, notes University of Nairobi public health specialist Dr Richard Ayah. "The curve continues with its upward trend and it is difficult to predict where the peak will be." According to Prof Adam, the majority of patients in Kenya do not present with most of the classical symptoms. These include fever, deep cough and shortness of breath. "Most people do not have all these symptoms," he said. "In fact, some people were tested routinely at our outpatient only for their results to return positive." This means testing is key, as the conditions of some mildly ill patients in some countries have worsened suddenly and they died. Adam said currently, patients with diabetes, high blood pressure and respiratory diseases have more severe infections, but there is no evidence people living with HIV are hit harder. Like other experts, Prof Adam predicts the infections will rise, the rate dependent on how Kenyans adhere to public health measures given by the government. He says if the infections rise, the Ministry of Health might be forced to allow asymptomatic patients to recover at home, which is standard practice across Europe and the United States. Patients from Aga Khan are still being monitored after discharge. This is because, in many countries, patients who were on respirators showed chest problems after discharge. Others had heart, liver and kidney problems. "Our patients with mild illness do not have any other problems so far," Prof Adam said. "Those that were on oxygen might have respiratory problems, but we are still monitoring them." Despite thousands of papers being sent to journals every week around the world, a full picture of Covid-19 is still elusive, as the virus acts like no pathogen humanity has ever seen. (edited by o. owino)