Health CAS Rashid Aman has urged Kenyans to stop playing hide-and-seek and risking their health in the process. During a press briefing on Friday at Afya House, he faulted Kenyans using panya routes to sneak in and out of areas under lockdown. "This is an issue of major concern to us. That kind of activity will make us go back. We have security authorities around the country that are looking into these kind of activities and ensuring that they do not happen. These people should act in a responsible way," Rashid said. He urged Kenyans not to allow people who have fled from restricted areas into thier homes. "Do not accept these people in your household. They might bring the disease to you. This is for your own common good and that of the country," Aman added. Aman reminded Kenyans that individuals with such behaviours can erode all the gains so far made. "This is because those doing so, God forbid, if they are infected, are spreading the disease to other areas. I am therefore appealing to such individuals to stop this behavior if we are to flatten our curve," he said. Meanwhile, Absa Bank Kenya delivered 10,000 N95 masks for use by frontline medical workers and 200,000 three-ply surgical masks for support staff working within hospitals and health facilities. "These masks will be distributed in partnership with the Ministry of Heath with and top priority will be given to Mbagathi Hospital, Kenyatta National Hospital, Kenyatta University Referral Hospital and Coast General Hospital," Absa CEO Jeremy Awori said. On Wednesday, the government locked down Eastleigh and Old Town as coronavirus cases surged. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said that there will be no movement into and out of the areas effective Wednesday at 7pm for 15 days. "You cannot leave the area to go to another area. This will take place for 15 days," he said. Kagwe said that the residents are allowed to walk within the area, adding that, "We do not want to lock people in their houses." The country tested 922 persons in the last 24 hours and 14 tested positive, raising the number of Covid-19 cases to 621. Ten of the new cases are from Nairobi, three are from Mombasa and one is from Machakos. This marks the first case in Machakos. A total of 19 counties have Covid-19 cases. Of the new cases, nine are male and five are female. The youngest case is an 11-month-old baby. There are five more discharges, raising the total to 202.