Makueni restaurant and eatery owners who want to reopen their businesses will be required to apply for a three-month permit. The Makueni County Emergency Response Committee said the applicants will be vetted by committees formed at the subcounty level and only those issued with a certificate of compliance will be allowed to reopen. County commissioner Maalim Mohammed, who co-chairs the committee alongside Governor Kivutha Kibwana, said successful applicants will be required to operate under strict rules on health and social distancing to avert coronavirus infections. “The owners of these businesses must meet all the required health standards and adhere to the laid-down regulations to ensure we do not get infections,” Maalim said. He added that the five-member committee headed by deputy county commissioners and sub-county administrators will begin inspecting the business and premises of those who will have applied by today. The administrator noted that some restaurants and eateries had started operating against the government's directives. “The restriction to offer takeaway services is still active until you apply for the new permit and qualify to operate,” he said. Makueni Health executive Andrew Mulwa said the new permit will not be charged for those who had valid licenses before the government announced the restrictions. According to Mulwa, some of the requirements agreed by the multi-agency team include testing of staff for Covid-19 and a mandatory health certificate for all the workers. However, he said the government was yet to decide who will pay for the cost of those who require the test. He said those who qualify to get the permits and are able to pay the testing cost for their staff are free to do so. All the staff will be required to be screened daily on reporting to work. “There should also be a staff assigned to screen all those entering the business premises for service at the entrance,” Mulwa said. Cash transactions are not allowed in restaurants and eateries. The management is also required to ensure there are visible notices for the staff promoting hygiene and physical distancing, instructions and also training for them on how to prevent the spread of Covid-19. “Any person permitted to operate a restaurant or an eatery contravenes to given guidelines, the County health officers will close down the business without further consultation to the owner,” said Mulwa. Makueni county has not reported any case on Covid-19. Edited by E.Kibii