Construction of dykes will not solve the perennial problem of flooding in Budalang'i, MP Raphael Wanjala said. The MP said rivers Nzoia and Yala, which flow through Budalang’i into Lake Victoria, need to be dredged to hold more water. Without dredging the two rivers will always overflow when it rains. More than 40,000 residents in Budalang’i are presently living in displaced people's camps following heavy rains that led to the flooding of half of the constituency in late April. “The government itself is busy conducting seminars with our money and we are not seeing anything happening,” Wanjala said. “When we tell them local solutions to this problem, they don’t want to listen. Even if they construct dykes but the rivers have not been drenched, you will be doing nothing. I am happy they have come here themselves and they have been able to see what I have been telling them. “We must drench these rivers. Since God created the universe, these rivers have been carrying sand all the way from the highlands and they are full of sand.” Budalang’i experiences flooding during the long rains season. Humanitarian organisations have been busy in the constituency evacuating residents whose homes have been swept away by floods. On April 10, leaders from Western, including Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega), Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa and Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong, asked residents to embrace a project that involves the construction of dams to end the floods menace. “This is an opportunity to get a lasting solution to the floods which used to be a Busia affair but have now spread to Bungoma, Kakamega and Trans Nzoia, thus the need for dams upstream in Lugari, Tongaren and Webuye,” Oparanya said. Busia county commissioner Joseph Kanyiri said Bunyala residents should voluntarily move from their homes until the floods subside. But some residents of the subcounty that borders Lake Victoria have refused to move. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i said last Wednesday the government would embark on forceful eviction of people in flood-prone areas following reports that at least 30 people had died between April 5 and 6. Edited by Henry Makori