Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has dismissed as fake a report on Covid-19 government expenditure doing rounds on social media. A document tabled before the Health Committee of the National Assembly chaired by Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege indicates the ministry used Sh42 million to lease 15 ambulances. They used Sh14.4 million to maintain and fuel 30 vehicles used by officers across the country, translating to Sh40,000 per vehicle every week. The ministry spent Sh2 million out of the Sh6 million approved for airtime for some of its 500 staff for a period of three months. "...in pointing out the fakeness of the financial analyses making the circuit, I am sure that you will agree with me this is not the appropriate forum for me to delve into detailed accounting, balance sheets et all," Kagwe said. In a post on Facebook on Thursday night, Kagwe said that among his critics is a cohort that believes in exploitation and thinks that by spreading lies, innuendo and propaganda he will be intimidated. "They want us sidetracked. I am no greenhorn; I have seen such mischief before. I wasn’t intimated then and will not be intimidated now. Watch my actions, they will illustrate this," he said. "The job at hand is simple: save lives in the most cost efficient way and accomplish this in collaboration with the people this position devotes me to: YOU." Kagwe said as a Kenyan he has been disappointed by leaders who fail Kenyans for reasons that span from inefficiency to corruption. "The allegations you are seeing are based on this trend: public skepticism and pessimism. I get it," he said. Kagwe noted that the ministry would provide the transparency that is needed during the coronavirus pandemic. "You need transparency and will get it in a manner detailed enough for your critical analyses. Suffice it to say, there will be no theft of Covid-19 resources under my watch" he said. ".. and if there is any truth regarding the misuse of Covid-19 funds, beyond being disheartened, I guarantee you that those responsible will be out of the ministry faster than we can blink." The government has said it will release a detailed report on how the Sh1 billion World Bank cash has been spent in the war on the coronavirus. Health CAS Rashid Aman on Thursday said the accounting team and international partners would issue a detailed report on Friday. Edited by Henry Makori