Two people have drowned in Mandera after River Dawa burst its banks and flooded homes following heavy rains in the Ethiopian highlands. The perennial river forms part of the Kenya-Ethiopia border in the North East. Mandera Governor Ali Roba said the two drowned at Neboi. He said he had information that two people had also drowned at Suftu on the Ethiopian side. County director for agriculture Bernard Ogutu, county assembly deputy speaker Farah Abdinoor and the governor’s press toured the affected villages. Khalalio, Hareri and Aresa were among the worst-hit. They said crops valued at millions of shillings were destroyed in the farms. More than 30 water pumps were also destroyed by the floods. At Khalalio, 34 families were left homeless after their houses were submerged, chief Mohamed Kahiye said. At the Hareri Irrigation Scheme, more than 2,000 acres of crops have been washed away, putting the county's food security plans at threat. There are also fears of an outbreak of waterborne diseases and malaria as water sources have been destroyed. Most families had to make do with dirty water for domestic purposes. The waters have also become a breeding ground for mosquitoes. The floods have also cut off key roads leading to Mandera town. “Our harvests have been destroyed. Maize that was near maturity, onions, tomatoes, pawpaws, watermelons, oranges, bananas, mangoes, sorghum and millet have been submerged,” farmer Omar Abdinoor said. He said the last time the area experienced floods of such magnitude was in 1982 according to elders.  Mandera deputy speaker Farah Abdinoor decried the destruction of farms and roads by the floods and appealed to the county and national government to move with speed and assist residents. The fast flowing River Dawa originates from southern Ethiopia and flows south-east across Mandera and into Somalia. The county government offers subsidised seeds and fertiliser to farmers to boost food production. Those affected by the floods have appealed to the county and national government to provide them with food rations, clean water and mosquito nets. Governor Roba has issued an alert over threats posed by floods in the county. “We have reports of massive flooding of River Dawa being experienced upstream from the Ethiopian highlands which is the source of the river, and all the way to Mandera town,” Roba said. He said the floods have destroyed the main sources of water that serve Mandera municipality. "Suftu intake is completely submerged as is Neboi whose three wells have collapsed," the governor said. The Handadu intake is also out of service after its two wells were submerged. Only one private well, Haji Kerrow, that serves Mandera Municipality remains functional but Roba said the county’s emergency teams were working round the clock to restore supplies. He urged Rhamu Dimtu, Khalicha, Yabicho, Rhamu, Girisa, Sala, Hareri, Aresa, Gadudia and Khalalio residents to move to higher grounds. Also at risk are Bellah, Bulla Haji, Neboi, Shafshafey, Boystown and Border Point One residents, the governor said. He said an emergency surveillance team from the county government is on standby to evacuate residents threatened by floods from Rhamu Dimtu to Border Point One.  Edited by P.O