A cancer care advocate has won a top award for his contributions to reducing the global burden of the disease. David Makumi, the vice chairman of the Non-Communicable Diseases Alliance of Kenya, was honoured alongside two other nurses. He was the only African on the list. The award by the International Society of Nurses in Cancer Care honours nurses who have made substantial contributions to reducing the global burden of cancer. Makumi’s award is in recognition of a cancer nurse from a low or middle-income country who has initiated and sustained a programme of cancer care in his country. “It is very humbling. It is not an award for me but a recognition of what nurses across this region are doing, not just in Sub Saharan Africa but the entire continent,” Makumi told the Star yesterday. The presentation of the awards was scheduled to take place in London on the March 29 but was postponed to next year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “The coronavirus came when we had to go and receive it in person but we have to work with the global new normal. The plan is to receive it early next year,” he said. Makumi was feted for his contributions to shaping cancer nursing in Kenya and the region in his more than 15 years of clinical practice, policy, and advocacy. He served as the chair of the umbrella body of over 30 cancer associations and patient groups (Kenya Network of Cancer Organisations) until July 2019, and as a founding patron of the Oncology Nurses, Kenya Chapter. Makumi also sits on the board of the National Cancer Institute of Kenya, a government agency that advises the cabinet secretary for Health on all cancer matters. His work over the last three years has focused on designing a framework of engagement between oncology nurses and cancer civil society organisations. “The incidence of cancer worldwide is expected to grow from 18.1 million in 2018 to 29.5 million in 2040. The goals of reducing cancer incidence, improving survival, and providing better palliative care cannot happen without the efforts of nurses,” ISNCC President Patsy Yates said. “The work of the three nurses who have received this year’s ISNCC awards provide excellent examples of what can be done through nursing efforts.” The World Health Organization designated 2020 the International Year of the Nurse and Midwife but it has been disrupted by the coronavirus pandemic. “Recognition of the work of these exceptional nurses is especially important as we begin our celebrations of the International Year of the Nurse and Midwife,” Yates said. The other winner is Theresa Wiseman, Strategic Lead for Applied Health Research at the Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust and Professor of Applied Health Research in Cancer Care at the University of Southampton. She was awarded ISNCC’s Distinguished Merit Award. Lena Sharp, Head of the Regional Cancer Centre, Stockholm-Gotland, in Sweden, has been awarded the Robert Tiffany Lectureship. ISNCC is an international membership organization of oncology nurse leaders dedicated to improving the health and well-being of people at risk for or living with cancer. (edited by o. owino)