Books... pieces of paper combined together to give you a flowing story. Reading books is something that not many people have embraced, in as much as it's important. It broadens your thinking and along the way you get to learn a thing or two that you didn't know. During this period when so many people are confused about what to do since we have to stay at home, it may be a good time to go back to reading the books you have abandoned for months or more. Here are a few pointers you can use to get back to your reading groove; 1. Short stories Short stories are the easiest and most interesting to start with. With short stories you have many different topics in one book and this enables you not to get tired of reading one story, especially if you used to read and gradually stopped or if you are a beginner. 2. Interesting reads You were an avid reader but once you stopped, the interest faded away? Try and look for books that interest you and that resonate with you, that way you will enjoy yourself rather than thinking you are wasting time. 3. Invest in an e-Reader Gadgets are heaven sent as you can move with them easily. You can also invest in an e-Reader and save all your books in the gadget. That way you have something to read everywhere you go. If you cannot afford an e-Reader, you can also use your phone or tablet. They do the same job as well. Remember we are living in a tech world now. 4. Get a journal It's easy to forget when you are supposed to do something or did but having a journal comes in handy during such scenarios. Get a good journal and document what you have learnt from a book you are reading. 5. Set reading goals. If you don't have a plan on how you are supposed to run things, you might mess everything up. If you are getting back into your reading habits, it's important to set goals for yourself. You can decide to read two books in a week depending on your schedule or your reading speed. 6. Consider your reading speed There are slow and fast readers so don't compare yourself to how someone else reads. If you are a slow reader, try looking for books that are not complex. You want to enjoy reading not complain about the many pages. For fast readers, you can challenge yourself and read more books in a shorter period of time. Just make sure you are grasping something important from your read. 7. What about podcasts? There are people who are not into reading either a soft or hard copy but they look for other options to learn something new. Podcasts are also an option as you can just listen rather than reading. Most people who have eye problems prefer listening to podcasts rather than reading a book or looking at a gadget for hours and end up tearing. This is a good option especially for those who love listening to audios than watching or reading something. 8. Attend reading groups. If you find it hard reading alone, you can join a reading club and with that you will understand what the book is about and everyone's understanding of the book. It's one of the best ways to get back into reading. However, you might want to limit your group meetings to Zoom at the moment as the government advises Kenyans to stay home to contain the spread of the coronavirus. There are different genres that you can read from. The best thing is to identify what you are really interested in then dive into it. With time, you might find yourself expounding to other genres. 9. Create a fun reading environment Reading should not be boring or hectic. So look for a really comfortable and peaceful place you can indulge in reading. You can create a desk with a lamp and a computer. This will help you to also do some research on some of the pieces you are reading. You can also make your space lively. You can have a small speaker playing music as you read if you don't find it distracting. Flowers are beautiful, why not get a vase and arrange your flowers however you want, to give your reading space some life? 10. Watch movies and series In case you've never noticed, a number of series and movies are based on real life events especially from books. For example, the Fifty Shades Trilogy has three books that were made into a series of movies. If you had read the books before the movies were released, it would have been easier for you to understand the movies. Reading should be fun and not torture. Make sure your reading habits are incorporated with some fun.