World Half Marathon record holder Geoffrey Kamworor has been left to rue the emergence of the coronavirus pandemic, saying it struck when he was in top shape. However, he exuded confidence that he will pick from where he left once the coronavirus dust settles. “We were in top shape when COVID-19 struck. Staying at home is a major challenge and requires a lot of discipline. I am training alone back at home just to keep fit and I expect to come back stronger when competition resumes…Expect great results guys,” said Kamworor. He was speaking during the third webinar meeting hosted by the National Olympic Committee Kenya, themed: “The Home Athlete Nutrition Plan.” The meeting aimed at giving sports persons tips on proper nutrition as the sports world continues to grapple with prolonged inactivity. Kamworor was joined by Olympian boxer Elizabeth Andiego as well nutritionists Erick Kihugwa and Mercy Barwecho. Kamworor thanked Nock for facilitating the webinar, saying: “I have learned a lot in terms of nutrition and I will no doubt make adjustments to my diet. This information is relevant to sportspeople and will go a long way in making them better. I also hope to return stronger at the end of all this.” Even though sports have ground to a halt globally, Kamworor observed that he hasn’t made any major changes to his routine. “I haven’t made changes to my diet. I have maintained the same diet I follow when preparing for competition,” he assured.  The New York City Marathon champion also shared part of his diet regime pre and post-event, saying: “I ensure that my diet is balanced before and after any competition, I am engaged in.” On the other hand, Andiego, who became the first woman to represent Kenya in the Olympic Games after her 2012 London Games bow, said the pandemic has thrown her diet program into disarray. “I have not been too strict with my diet because we don’t have any competitions on the horizon,” she said. Andiego further spoke about the challenges of getting specific foods at a time when the COVID-19 pandemic has caused a massive slowdown in economic activities worldwide. Barwecho, meanwhile, emphasised on the importance of nutrition for athletes, saying: “At the most basic level, nutrition is important for athletes because it provides a source of energy required to perform. The food we eat impacts our strength, training, performance and recovery.” She gave dietary tips to enable athletes to stay in competitive shape. “Athletes need to be disciplined with their diets during this period of inactivity.  They can improvise by using locally available foods such as sweet potatoes and bananas. It is also important to maintain healthy eating habits. This includes food diversification where we are able to have an intake of proteins, carbohydrates and vitamins in equal measure. It is also very important to stay safe in the wake of the COVID19 pandemic,” she added Kihugwa shared dietary tips for non-elite athletes looking to stay fit during COVID-19, saying: “It is important to take foods that boost your immunity such as fruits and vegetables.”