The recruitment of a new Kenya Ports Authority MD will be fair and transparent, , board chairman Joseph Kibwana has said. The process will take two months. Kibwana dismissed reports that the board had already shortlisted some names, saying it has a list of more than 150 applicants. “We have received a good number of applicants, so we shall go step by step,” he said. Kibwana said three names will be forwarded to Transport CS James Macharia, who will pick the successful candidate. “Before the names are forwarded, we shall have a one-on-one interview with the shortlisted candidates but I assure you that the most qualified person will get the job,” he said. The chairman said the process will take a long time as it will involve virtual meetings. “We have to comply with the government directives on Covid-19 [control], which include social distancing and limiting the number of people at any one sitting," he said. "We use technology to conduct our meetings, and at times, it is a lengthy process that requires lots of patience.” The seat fell vacant after MD Daniel Manduku resigned on March 27. Rashid Salim was appointed in an acting capacity. The Port of Mombasa is the gateway to East and Central Africa, and one of the busiest ports along the East African coastline. As such it attracts massive interest. Those in the race include engineer Joseph Atonga, who will be making a third attempt to clinch the lucrative post, KPA general manager in charge of Lamu port Abdullahi Samatar and KPA general manager in charge of Kisumu port Sudi Mwasinago. Salim and Yobesh Oyaro, the KPA head of strategy at the Kisumu Inland Container Depot, are also in the race. The process is said to have attracted the highest number of senior managers at the parastatal. Former KPA general manager for corporate services Justus Nyarandi is also said to be in the race. He was unceremoniously axed from KPA alongside former MD Gichiri Ndua four years ago. Nyarandi works as an executive secretary at the Northern Corridor Transit and Transport Coordination Authority in Mombasa. Others are KPA general manager in charge of infrastructure development Vincent Sidai, who was employed on a three-year contract, KPA general manager human resources and administration Daniel Ogutu and KPA general manager, board and legal services, Addraya Dena. Apart from Kibwana, the other board members include Solomon Kitungu, Peter Gibendi, Conrad Thorpe, Peter Njiiri, Mary Ngari, Alice Waisaka, Delilah Kadzo, Oscar Eredi, Phillip Mainga, Addraya Dena and Rashid Salim. Transport CAS Chris Obure on April 21 told the applicants and Kenyans that the recruitment will be aboveboard. Edited by Frank Obonyo