 There is panic among Mwingi town residents after a nurse at the Mwingi Level 4 Hospital tested positive for coronavirus. The man is said to have contracted the virus from a lady who works in a quarantine facility in Mombasa. He visited her between April 6 and 9 and then traveled back to Mwingi in Kitui county. Mwingi town residents say they are worried the virus could have spread to many because the man interacted with a lot of people upon his return from Mombasa until he was discovered to have the virus. Jedidah Mwangangi, a trader at the Mwingi bus park, has urged the government to trace all the contacts of the nurse as fast as possible, and conduct more tests to ensure all positive cases in Mwingi town are discovered. She said mass testing would ensure the spread of the virus is arrested. “We are living in fear, who do not know who might have interacted with the nurse who is alleged to have been living in this town,” Mwangangi said. Gilbert Mwalya said he was disappointed with the nurse for misusing their listing as essential service providers to travel to Mombasa. President Uhuru Kenyatta on April 6 ordered a cessation of movement in and out of Nairobi, Mombasa, Kilifi and Kwale counties to contain the spread of coronavirus. But medics are exempted given their service are crucial at this time when the country battles the global pandemic. Mwalya said even though medics are allowed to move, let them move for a purpose and not risk the lives of other Kenyans. “I belong to the essential services categories but I cannot move around, let us be responsible please because Covid-19 is real,” Mwalya said. Water vendor Maliti Mengi said residents were living in fear of contracting Covid-19 after interacting with the nurse. “This town should be fumigated to clear the virus as we do not know the exact places the nurse visited,” Mengi said. The patient was trasferred to Kenyatta National Hospital in Nairobi and contact tracing activated. Joseph Muthangya asked residents to wear masks and keep social distance. “Let us adhere to the precautionary measures set by the Health Ministry and we shall overcome this pandemic,” Muthangya said.  Edited by P.O