The National Assembly could be legislating in vain in its attempt to oversight the National Treasury’s budget-making process. This followed findings the Ukur Yatani-led team has yet to adhere to resolutions made by MPs to streamline spending. This is in respect of how it has dealt with resolutions on the 2020 Budget Policy Statement, supplementary estimates and printed estimates for the financial year 2020-21. The Parliamentary Budget Office, in its analysis of legislation around budget making, puts Treasury on the spot for failing to cap Executive, Parliament and the Judiciary spending. Also in contention is a resolution by MPs that pending bills of more than Sh500 million be paid through long-term instruments. Treasury has also ignored MPs’ directive stopping it from effecting, by any means, reduction of Judiciary, Parliament and Executive budgets without approval. The ministry also failed to allocate in the next budget Sh3 billion for strategic response to public initiatives as advised by MPs. The PBO cited non-compliance with the directive that Sh7 billion be raised from cuts in Executive expenditure. The Budget Office wants Treasury called out for failing to develop a framework for completing stalled projects, which was to be done by October 1, 2019. It also cited Treasury's defiance of directives that no new projects are introduced in supplementary estimates and for completion of stalled one. The experts raised concerns that Treasury failed to initiate an audit of the National Identity Management Information System (NIIMS) – famed as Huduma Namba. MPs sought a report on the value for money audit of the NIIMS project to be submitted to the National Assembly by end of March. However, since there is no substantive Auditor General to order such a review, the audit may delay further. Treasury is accused of failure to provide a report of how each county benefited from a Sh10.5 billion allocated for primary health care facilities under the Universal Health Care (UHC) programme. “MPs advised that the funding should be channeled through counties as conditional grants by amending the Division of Revenue Act, 2019,” PBO pointed out. Yatani's team is yet to submit a comprehensive matrix on the implementation of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda before the submission of the 2020 Budget Policy Statement. The matrix was to include the total cost of the projects, how much has been spent so far and the expected annual allocations until the completion of the projects. PBO, in its report to MPs, cited Treasury’s failure to move the Kenya National Shipping Line to the Maritime Department. It also raised issues with Yatani team’s delays in operationalising the Street Children Rehabilitation Trust Fund which has its Sh153.9 million held in suspense account. MPs resolved that National Treasury provides sufficient counterpart funding for works on Loiyangalani-Marsabit-Isiolo and Thika-Nairobi East power transmission lines. The PBO warned of an imminent risk of loss of Sh2.6 billion already paid as insurance for the contract if no counterpart funding is realized. The experts further alerted MPs that National Treasury doesn’t upload the approved budget into IFMIS within seven days as required by law. MPs resolved  to ease implementation of annual work plans, procurement plans and clearance of pending bills. PBO is also concerned that Treasury did not submit the country’s spending framework with information on the country’s debt, amount of loans, and the borrowing strategy. “The information was to be accompanied by a list of specific projects that will benefit from the borrowed funds,” the report reads. Yatani’s team is also yet to free user fees (fines and forfeitures) collected by the Judiciary for the latter’s retention. The monies were to enable the operationalisation of the Judiciary Fund just as is the case with other government institutions that generate and retain their revenues. MPs' call for Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) to submit quarterly projection of details of commitments for each project to the National Treasury is yet to be heeded. The experts also alerted MPs that Treasury is yet to clearly indicate projects that will be funded through the Sports Fund. MPs asked the Education ministry to conducts an infrastructural audit in all public schools to identify gaps for equitable distribution of funds. This is yet to be implemented. Edited by Henry Makori