The Directorate of Criminal Investigations is probing the dumping of suspected hazardous waste at Ololua Forest on Friday. Kenya Forest Service Chief Conservator of Forests Julius Kamau told the Star the occupants of a vehicle that was used to dump wastes are being sought. “The samples [of the waste] have been sent to the Government Chemist to establish the nature of the wastes,” Kamau said. Kamau said the waste is in the form of heaps of tablets and powder substances of various colours. He said the illegal disposal of hazardous waste in forests puts at risk the health of communities living nearby. “The poisonous substances may also leak into water catchment points and streams,” he said. Kamau disclosed that detectives from DCIO’s office in Ngong have taken up the matter. “In collaboration with National Environment Management Authority, KFS has already removed the waste from the forest,” Kamau said. The conservator warned that waste dumping in the forest is one of the prohibited offences by the Forest Conservation and Management Act 2016 and the EMCA Act and attracts heavy fines. “I wish not to discuss the details since this is a matter that is headed to the courts once the suspect has been apprehended,” he said. The Environmental Management and Co-ordination Act says that those found guilty of polluting the environment with hazardous waste will pay minimum Sh1 million in fines or serve jail terms of not less than two years, or both. The law also allows for the forfeiture of vehicles and equipment used in these illegal activities. Kamau lauded a member of the public for sharing information about the offenders. “The service appreciates the member of the public who captured and documented the culprits in the act,” Kamau who visited the site on Saturday said. The EMCA Act says that any vehicle used for transportation of waste or any other means of conveyance shall be labelled in such a manner as may be directed by Nema. The law does not allow the disposal of any waste on a public highway, street, road, recreational area or in any public place except in a designated waste receptacle. In March 2019, KFS directed three senior officials to step aside to facilitate a probe after illegal activities were unearthed at Ololua Forest. The license of HydroMasters was suspended with KFS accusing the company of subcontracting its license to China Communications Construction Company. HydroMasters contractor George Melonye, however, denied any wrongdoing. The firm had been granted the license to extract quarry dust from Ololua Forest block in Ngong Hills.