Leaders in Wajir on Monday urged residents, especially those living in terror-prone areas along the Kenya-Somalia border, not to give in to terror threats and intimidation by al Shabaab militants. Governor Mohamed Abdi said on Monday residents have "an even bigger role to play" to eliminate security threats, a day after militants attacked Khorof Harar police post. During the Saturday morning attack, heavily armed attackers raided the police post with motors and grenades. Police officers repulsed the attackers who escaped towards the Somalia border. “I want to make a humble request to members of the public to cooperate with the security forces and agencies to fight these militants who are out to kill our people and destabilise our country,” the governor told residents in the border town of Khorof Harar in Wajir East during a security sensitisation meeting. Abdi said local leaders and residents will continue to work closely with security officers to find a lasting solution to the problem. He said they would not allow the militants to turn the area into a playground and kill innocent Kenyans. MP Rashid Kassim, while commending the swift action by the security agencies who thwarted what would have been a deadly attack, urged security officers in the border towns to maximise the use of temporary military camps in Qarsa and Konton to deal with terrorism threats. County commissioner Jacob Narengo said individuals who spread fake news whenever there is an insecurity incident will be arrested and taken to court. “Let's be good citizens of our country. We should not be seen as glorifying terror activities by reporting unsubstantiated information. Such things end up creating panic and fear among our people. Let us all be responsible,” he said. Narengo termed as untrue reports that the militants escaped with the armoury, some officers kidnapped and the communication mast destroyed. It is not the first time the militants are attacking the area. In December last year, two Kenyan police officers were killed and seven others injured when a vehicle they were travelling in hit an improvised explosive device in Khorof Harar. Edited by A.N