The recent decision by Football Kenya Federation to conclude the National Super League and declare the promotion of Nairobi City Stars and Bidco has been castigated strongly by Vihiga United. Vihiga United chairman, Kahi Indimuli, faulted the move, saying it was unfair. Vihiga have now been pencilled to take on Kisumu All-Stars in a relegation/promotion playoff. He opined that since Sony FC left the league earlier in the season, they automatically became non-participants, thus paving a direct promotion to three teams from NSL with the fourth place now being given a playoff berth. “This decision was done without consultation. Nevertheless, we shall go ahead and take on Kisumu All-Stars in the playoff. We have high hopes that we shall also make it back to the Kenyan Premier League,” Indimuli said He added that this season’s NSL was one of the toughest and competitive they have ever featured in and he believes his team not only deserves the opportunity to be in the top tier league but they also have what it takes to shine and maintain their position. “In the meantime, I take this opportunity to congratulate City Stars and Bidco for the promotion because they did good preparations and invested in quality players,” he said “My players and the technical staff also deserve praise for remaining focused despite the multiple challenges they went through to get an opportunity for the playoffs. “We shall prepare well knowing that this is our final and defining moment as we look forward to a tough challenge from the lake-based Kenya Premier League team with vast experience having played in the league this season,” Indimuli warned. When things settle down after the current coronavirus pandemic, the Vihiga County-sponsored outfit intends to embark on a vigorous training under the tutelage of Sammy Okoth and his staff mates who have the experience in this kind of matches. Indimuli also revealed that they are working out on a program that will see the team maintain their place in the top league if they get promoted. Vihiga have seen their players and the technical bench go for months without pay with Indimuli and few officials being forced to seek alternative ways of motivating and sustaining the team for the entire season.