Deputy President William Ruto’s allies in the Rift Valley are considering several political options following the worsening relationship with President Kenyatta’s team in Jubilee. Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei says President Kenyatta has drawn the battle lines with the removal of Ruto’s allies from the Senate leadership and they would consider the best way forward. Talk is rife in the region to revive the disbanded United Republican Party or form a new outfit. Elites from the Kalenjin community and those in Ruto’s camp are privately discussing their possible political future. However, Cherargei and Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi said staying put in Jubilee and fighting from within was still their best option despite frustrations and unfair schemes targeted at DP Ruto. “We do not know the source of all this hatred and war against the DP and his allies. But with the way things are going we are now ready for the battle because Ruto has his supporters and we can not give up,” Cherargei said. The senator said they target to push out Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju, accusing him of being one of those plotting to wreck the party and undermine the DP. “Within the next one month we will push to have Tuju out of Jubilee at all costs,”said Cherargei. Sudi said Tuju was brought into Jubilee to give it a national face and that he has no actual stake in the party. “It is many Kenyans who formed Jubilee to unite the country and not the likes of Tuju who are now being used to frustrate members of the party,” said Sudi. A few of Ruto’s allies from the region met at a home in Uasin Gishu last Sunday to start considering options available ahead of the removal of senators Kipchumba Murkomen and Kihika Kimani from the Senate leadership. “We know the sackings will now move to Parliament but we are not scared. Let them just prepare an entire list of Ruto allies and sack them once so that Uhuru can go back and focus on serving the country,” Cherargei said. Jubilee deputy secretary general Caleb Kostany, who is the MP for Soy, has been tasked to lead the fight within the party. The Ruto allies wants to either take over the party or wreck it all together so that no one gets advantage. Kanu officials in the region led by branch chairmen have welcomed the new alliance with Jubilee. “We fully support President Kenyatta and our party leader Gideon Moi. They have our blessings to go ahead and unite Kenyans,” said Uasin Gishu Kanu branch chairman David Chepsiror. Edited by Henry Makori