Machakos Agriculture CEC has been asked to explain what happened to Sh65.5 million requisitioned from the exchequer as the expenditure was not spent by the department. The money was meant for several development projects. The demand for explanation followed a debate in the county assembly and the adoption of a report prepared by the agriculture committee that questioned the expenditure. The committee recommended a probe on the unexplained expenditure. It also recommended a budget cut of a similar amount. Committee chairman Moses Mitaa said that the department had introduced many projects which were not implemented despite the allocation of money. "From the report it can be observed that the department requisitioned Sh58.87 million for the recurrent expenditure from exchequer out of which only Sh0.99 million was spent," the report says. The committee asked how the balance of Sh57.88 million was spent and why the money was requisitioned without an expenditure plan. The 13-member committee was presenting the the 2019/2020 first quarter report. It accused the department of funds mismanagement. Mitaa said most projects indicated no monies had been committed through  procurement. The projects included the purchase of seeds at Sh15 million, purchase of motorbikes for extension services in 16 wards at Sh2 million, Sh5 million for Free Tractor Programme, Sh2 million for tree seedlings, Sh5.5 million for Indigenous chicks and chicken feed, Sh3 million for free livestock vaccinations, Sh5 million for artificial insemination and Sh16 million for the construction of  dips. Most projects were either half done or not started. The committee said the department's chief executive had explained that the delay was caused by late mapping of the department by the National Treasury in e-procurement and IFMIS. She also argued that the department was formerly the Department of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries Development and had shared functions with the Water Department. The CEC said it took a long time for the National Treasury to give them departmental codes after the two ministries were reorganised.  - mwaniki fm