 City Hall workers who had not complied with the order seconding them to Nairobi Metropolitan Services can breathe a sigh of relief after the High Court stopped any disciplinary action against them until a case filed by their union is heard and determined. The Public Service Commission and the NMS had told 6,052 workers to report to Kenyatta International Convention Centre for documentation and collection of secondment letters without fail on April 6 and 7 between 8am and 4pm. The venue was switched to Uhuru Park. But not all the targeted workers complied. Those who did not comply were deemed to have absconded duty and would be disciplined. On April 24, the NMS announced it was taking an additional 800 county employees. The Kenya County Government Workers Union (KCGWU) moved to the Labour and Employment court, seeking to quash secondment of staff to the NMS. The union said workers who had not shown up for secondment and those who showed up without the required documents were being intimidated and harassed. This, the union leaders said, was a violation of their fundamental human rights and freedoms as enshrined in the Constitution. Late last week, Justice Hellen Wasilwa barred the PSC and the NMS from either sacking or victimising those who had not complied. "Pending hearing and determination of this application, an order is hereby issued restraining the respondents from terminating, harassing and intimidating the applicant's members who attended but lacked the necessary documentation and those who may have failed to attend the secondment exercise, " Wasilwa ruled. The case will be heard on May 13. The union’s Nairobi branch secretary, Boniface Waweru, told the Star on Sunday that the workers were not consulted before the secondment, hence their decision to go to court. He did not say how many of the reassigned workers failed to comply. "The union cannot give the exact number because in the first place the workers concerned had not been issued with prior communication of how the process would be undertaken," Waweru said. Most of the second lot of the seconded workers are from the Inspectorate (759) while 21 are from Investigative, 14 are sub-county administrators and six from Administration. This brought to a total of 6,852 the number of City Hall workers seconded to the NMS. “The staff underlisted have been seconded to Nairobi Metropolitan Services with effect from April 22 and are hereby notified to report to their respective sub-counties/duty station on April 27 and 28 between 8am and 4pm for documentation and collection of letters of secondment,” the notice from PSC chairman Stephen Kirogo said. The secondment of staff to the national government is provided for under Article 5.6 and 5.7 of the Deed of Transfer signed by Governor Mike Sonko and Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa on February 25. The deed become effective on March 17. Under the Deed of Transfer, Health, Transport, Planning and Development, and Public Works, Utilities and Ancillary services are now the responsibility of the national government through the NMS for two years. Sonko is against the secondment of staff, claiming that the NMS and the PSC have no jurisdiction over county government employees. “As it stands, the responsibility still remains with the Nairobi County Public Service Board to notify its employees of the purported secondment. "The Public Service Commission should operate within its mandate, and can only second national government officers to the Nairobi Metropolitan Services,” he said. Sonko had told employees to ignore the PSC directive but most workers ignored him and collected their secondment letters at Uhuru Park. The governor argued that there was no prior written communication copied to his office and the County Secretary. According to him, President Uhuru Kenyatta was categorical that the March 17 handover was the beginning of a partnership and collaboration between his administration and the NMS for the smooth implementation of the Deed of Transfer gazetted on February 25. He claims he is being fought by unnamed powerful State House forces and has vowed to seek court intervention to have the transferred functions reverted to the county government. His lawyer, Harrison Kinyanjui, says the process of termination of the Deed will depend on how the President handles the situation. Kinyanjui termed the transfer agreement as an attempted unlawful takeover of the Nairobi City county government by the national government. “The takeover is unconstitutional and using the disguise of the transfer of functions without abiding by the law cannot be termed as legal. People cannot pretend to be helping the county yet the intention is exploitation,” he said. “Those in the national government should stop pretending to be helping the people of Nairobi. "If there was truly a candid reason to help the people of Nairobi, public participation would have been held before the agreement. At the end of the day, it is the lives of the residents that matter, not political witch hunt," he added.  - mwaniki fm 