Voi MP Jones Mlolwa has denied claims he has been influencing the awarding of NG-CDF road maintenance tenders. He said those peddling corruption claims against him are only targeting to tarnish his political career. “Let us stop playing politics when it comes to development. We should support development projects instead of engaging in propaganda which will eventually derail the projects,” Mlolwa said on Monday. Speaking during the launch of the routine road maintenance of the 17-kilometre Voi-Mwalangi road in Sagala, Mlolwa asked the public to cooperate with the contractors to ensure the roads are well done and value for their money is achieved. The legislator said the NG-CDF committee is working independently without influence from his office, noting that all contractors are fairly selected in a competitive process. He urged women, youth and people living with disability not to shy away from applying tenders for roads maintenance. “These groups are always given priority during the awarding of tenders. I encourage them to apply so that we can empower them and reduce the number of jobless people as well,” Mlolwa added. The MP directed that youths who had volunteered to maintain the roads be given priority while hiring by contractors. He asked the government to release the Sh15 million Equalisation Fund which goes directly to Kenya Rural Roads Authority (Kerra) to maintain all the roads that were washed away by the heavy December rains. Taita Taveta Kerra deputy director Shem Omar asked residents not to harass the contractors and instead report any substandard work on the roads. He urged the contractors to involve the local community in the process and ensure they are well remunerated without delay. “Contractors should ensure terms of service are good to avoid conflicts with residents. They should also buy the readily available construction material from residents,” Omar said. He further asked those undertaking the maintenance work to follow all the government directives in combating the spread of Covid-19. Edited by R.Wamochie