In all the changes taking place in our party, one of the key objectives is to finish Deputy President William Ruto politically by setting the ground to favour their candidates. At this point we know these candidates are Baringo Senator Gideon Moi and ODM leader Raila Odinga. In the first scenario, the power brokers operating at State House want to manipulate the process and hold the next government hostage. Secondly, they are pushing all these schemes that are being implemented without regard to the party constitution, the existing laws and natural justice to make the DP surrender to their plans. They want the DP to go to the negotiating table and assure the dynasties that they will be safe if he is elected president in 2022. All these schemes will fail. The era of intimidation is long gone. It died with the old Constitution. From the changes made to the National Management Committee, despite protests from hundreds of members, signing the post-election coalition agreement with Kanu, removing senators from the Senate leadership and dewhipping those allied to the DP in House committees, it is clear that they are attempting to frustrate and undermine Ruto. The senators and MPs who are in leadership have done an exemplary job in pushing the government agenda, even when the changes they were pushing were not popular with the public. But the fraudsters we have in Jubilee Party, who are serving the sinister interests on external forces, cannot see this dedication. Some party officials are serving the interests of Raila, who is on a revenge mission against the DP and his allies for aggressively campaigning for President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2013 and twice in 2017. Raila is holding Uhuru hostage and we are calling on Jubilee supporters to pray for our government. How can you explain a situation where Jubilee is slowly and systematically surrendering government to the Opposition. We will keep fighting from within until the day sense and the rule of law prevail. We are yet to be invited to Thursday's Parliamentary Group meeting, but I want to declare that we will nonetheless attend to face our accusers. The Kimilili MP spoke to the Star