Traders in Thika town have urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to ensure the Sh53.7 billion economic stimulus package is prudently utilised to revive the economy. Uhuru unveiled the eight-point economic stimulus programme last week to cushion Kenyans against the effects of Covid-19. The traders, under Thika District Business Association (TDBA), said a proper strategy should be laid down to ensure businesses that have been brought to their knees by the pandemic get priority. The traders' chairman, Alfred Wanyoike, on Tuesday urged the President to ensure that all loopholes used by unscrupulous individuals to siphon such money are sealed. “It’s a great initiative that will revive our economy that has been ravaged by the pandemic. However the intended purpose will not be achieved should cartels and corrupt individuals find ways to lay their hands on the money," he said. Wanyoike said the harsh economic times the country is facing has pushed many traders, especially SMEs in Thika town, on the brink of closure. “SMEs are the drivers of the economy but they have been hit hard by the pandemic. Don’t let the money set aside to revive businesses end up in the wrong hands,” the chairman urged Uhuru. In the package, Uhuru allocated Sh10 billion to fast-track payment of outstanding VAT refunds and other pending payments to SMEs. Another Sh3 billion will be used as seed capital for SME Credit Guarantee Scheme. Wanyoike spoke in Thika town when he joined Sunveat Foods Ltd, the makers of Digestive Biscuits, in distributing food and non-food items to over 400 vulnerable families. Sunveat Foods Ltd, led by Suresh Sumaria, donated food, sanitiser and soap worth Sh500,000. Beneficiaries included people living with disability and those living with HIV-Aids in informal settlements within the subcounty Wanyoike said despite the hard economic times' traders in the industrial town have faced, they have managed to pool resources and fed over 2,000 families in the last two months. “Businessmen have supported poor families with food rations, soap, masks and sanitiser for two months now. They are our people and our customers and we have to support them,” he said. Edited by A.N 