Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka has warned cartels in the Ministry of Health that they will be brought down. He said legislators will continue their oversight on the ministry to tame corruption. “We are aware that some cartels are using the campaign against Coronavirus to loot funds. The legislature will fully exercise its role and we shall bring all the corrupt officials to book. Those involved will all end up in jail,” Lusaka warned. He was speaking during the burial of Priscilla Mwaruma, the mother to Taita Taveta Senator Jones Mwaruma in Kighala village, Taita Taveta County on Saturday. The Late Priscilla Wakesho Mwaruma passed away after a battle with Leukemia since May, 2019. Lusaka asked MPs in both Houses to work closely and fully exercise their duties in checking the government spending for accountability. He said all the Ministry of Health officials must account for all funds allocated in the fight against Covid-19. Kenya has borrowed a Sh79.3 billion loan from International Monetary Fund (IMF) to help the country fight Covid-19. Last month, the government acquired another Sh5.3 billion loan from the World Bank to finance production of Personal Protective Equipment among other operations in the Ministry of Health. Leaders who attended the send-off included Senate’s Minority Leader James Orengo, Senate Deputy Minority Whip Beatrice Kwamboka and Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja. Others are legislators Danson Mwashako (Wundanyi) and Lydia Haika (Taita Taveta woman representative). Wundanyi MP Danson Mwashako noted that Parliament is concerned over the utilisation of the newly-acquired loans, pointing out that the funds might not be fully accounted for. “There are cartels with appetite to steal public funds. They are the same people taking Sh4 million tea when thousands of Kenyans are languishing in poverty. We will not allow these loans to disappear like the Eurobond,” Mwashako said. The outspoken legislator urged Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka and his National Assembly counterpart Justin Muturi to convene a parliamentary caucus to discuss on how to safeguard funds allocated to Afya House. Orengo asked leaders to stop politicising the war on coronavirus and instead sensitise the community on protective measures. He further said legislators will give all necessary support in the fight against corruption. Samboja said that mass production of facemasks has commenced in major Vocational Training Centres in the county. “The centers are have so far produced over 100,000 masks that shall be distributed to residents,” he said. He said the county government will facilitate Vocational Training Centres to produce enough masks for all residents.