At least 30 per cent of Kenyans were reported to have walked during this coronavirus period, a report has indicated. The report released by KNBS on Tuesday indicates that about 32.2 per cent of the persons who used any means of transport in the last seven days reported that they had walked. The survey is being implemented using Computer Assisted Telephone Interviews  approach in which the interviews are conducted through telephone. Public Service Vehicles (matatus and buses) were used by 25.5 per cent of the population while 18.9 per cent used motorbikes. Following closely was the use of bicycles that was rated at 10.7 per cent followed by private vehicles at 6.4 per cent. Those Kenyans who use bicycles came in sixth at 2.8 per cent, Tuk tuks at 1.9 per cent and employer provided at 1.5 per cent. Respondents were asked if they had used any means of transport in the last seven days and how much they paid. Overall, there was a 51.7 per cent increase in the cost of transport on most frequent routes in Kenya. Migori county recorded the highest increase in the amount paid, with 77.2 per cent, while Turkana county recorded the least with 24.4 per cent. There was an increase in Kitui by 77.1 per cent, Murang'a (70.7), Kiambu (69.3), Marsabit (68.6). The KNBS survey is being implemented in six waves on a biweekly basis. This means that repeated observations are derived by following a sample of persons and collecting data from a sequence of interviews. The survey targets adults aged 18 years and above The survey is being implemented using Computer Assisted Telephone Interviews (CATI) approach in which the interviews are conducted through telephone and the responses are captured in tablets and transmitted to a central server for data processing. Data collection for the first wave was undertaken between May 2 and 9. A total of 15,840 people were interviewed with a 97 per cent response rate. The distribution of the respondents was as follows: females -52 per cent and males - 48 per cent.