Parliament's budget and finance experts have flagged 64 infrastructure projects, mostly roads, set to get Sh8.16 billion yet are marked as 100 per cent complete. The Parliamentary Budget Office questioned why the projects are being allocated resources in the 2020-21 budget, yet they have been finalised. They include Sh4.3 billion allocated for dualling Thika-Kenol-Marua highway and Sh100 million to the Nairobi Southern Bypass. The PBO also questioned the Sh300 million allocated for the Nairobi-Thika highway improvement project and Sh917 million for Kitale-Morpus highway. The experts further cited Sh65 million allocated for rehabilitation of Sultan Hamud-Machakos turnoff, Sh99 million for Njoro turnoff-Timboroa road, and Sh150 million for Waiyaki-RedHill link road. The team of economists also wants MPs to probe Sh100 million allocated for roads in Eastlands, Nairobi, yet the projects are marked as complete. Also singled out is the Sh10 million for Kericho-Nyamasaria-Kisian highway, Sh20 million for Busia open border post, and Sh20 million for LungaLunga border crossing. It casts doubt on the Sh50 million for Webuye-Kitale road; Sh10 million for interchanges at Nyahururu, Njoro and Mau Summit turnoffs; and Sh40 million for Industrial Area roads. The PBO wants MPs to probe allocation of Sh110 million for Kamatira-Cheptongei road; Sh70 million for Mariakani-Bamba road; Sh60 million for Rodi Kopany-Karungu road; Sh72 million for Butere–Ugunja; and Sh85 million for Kangeta-Lare road. The team wants more light shed on the Sh100 million for Kisima-Ruiri road; Sh200 million for roads in Kigumo and Karatina; and a total of Sh300 million for roads in Isiolo, Modogashe, Wajir and Elwak. Some Sh90 million allocated for Imaroro-Isara road project is also in doubt and so is Sh53 million allocated to select roads in Murang’a. Infrastructure PS Paul Maringa told the Star that payment of all building works is normally a cycle behind the implementation. “We pay for work done after delivery and not before it is done. These sums would, therefore, be reflecting such a reality,” the PS said. But a PBO official insisted that it would be best to let MPs probe whether there was delayed payment and inaccuracy of data between the ministries. The team further poked holes into the estimates drawn by Treasury CS Ukur Yatani, citing a breach of law in allocating wages and benefits to state officers. Next year’s share of wages and benefits to revenues is projected at 36.9 per cent. The Public Finance Management (PFM) Act, 2012, capped it at 35 per cent. Yatani, in the Sh1.75 trillion Executive budget presented to Parliament, proposes to allocate Sh1.16 trillion for salaries and operations; and Sh584 billion for development. But the PBO, in its analysis presented to MPs, further warns that the Sh823 billion deficit in the budget stands to worsen the debt crisis. Kenya’s public debt stood at Sh6.3 trillion as of March, even as it emerges that the cost of financing the loans consumes more resources than development expenditure. Hence, the PBO wants a law passed that charges at least 10 per cent of debt servicing expenses to other public funds and limit the impact of debt servicing on nationally raised revenues. The economists say the deficit may also spell doom for efforts by the government to cushion poor and vulnerable households. They have proposed a five per cent reduction in the recurrent budget and for the Treasury to float a special Covid-19 bond. The team warned that the Covid-19 emergency response needs risk reversing Yatani’s austerity measures, saying they would be hard to adhere to. “There is a high likelihood that fiscal consolidation measures will be hard to adhere to. Thus, the country’s debt distress levels could move from moderate to high,” PBO said. It wants the National Treasury to “temporarily abandon the contracting of new expensive commercial loans". The PBO also dismissed as unrealistic, income projections stated by some state agencies such a the Sh3.8 billion projected in tourism earnings. “This is unlikely to be achieved due to near collapse of the hotel industry that collects the catering levy into the fund,” the report reads. “The Sh14 billion projected by the Sports department is unlikely to be realised given that there are no activities happening in the sports industry, betting and lotteries.” Yatani’s revenue targets continue to be unrealistic, the PBO says, citing the challenges in meeting the current year’s target, which was short of Sh400 billion in March. The office also castigated the Treasury for not providing an adequate window for public participation in the budget process. It has emerged that apart from the Judiciary, Parliament’s budget was not subjected to public participation and there’s no proof of such for the Executive’s, either. (Edited by F'Orieny)