Private security firms have been warned against taking advantage of the Covid-19 pandemic to sack employees. Kenya National Private Security Workers Union National secretary-general Isaac Andabwa said employers in the private security sector were taking advantage of coronavirus to terminate workers without proper explanation. “Even after the CS Labour directed that employers shouldn’t send workers home on unpaid leave or interfere with salaries, already several companies have done exactly the opposite of what the CS told us on May 1 during the Labour Day celebrations at State House,” Andabwa said. Andabwa addressed the press shortly after he met shop stewards from various private security firms at Jamhuri Grounds in Dagorreti, Nairobi on Sunday. He said six major leading private security services providers were among companies that had sent their employees home without pay. Andabwa said some of the employees had their contracts irregularly terminated while others were sent on unpaid leave. “Six major companies in this sector have sent people home without a shilling in the name of unpaid leave against the Labor CS’s directive,” Andabwa said. He condemned the employers who take advantage of coronavirus to frustrate workers thereby infringing on their fundamental rights. Andabwa said the government should continue implementing the proposed reforms in the private security sector. “We were told by the Interior CS Fred Matiang’i that beginning February 1, issue compliance by employers in this industry shall have started. I urge the Private Security Regulatory Authority CEO Fazul Mohamed to continue implementing compliance, most guards are suffering already.” The Interior Ministry had directed that all the private companies involve in security services to comply with all set directives by April 1, 2020, and be issued with compliance certificates. Andabwa said some employers were adamant in meeting their obligations and blamed coronavirus. “Coronavirus has brought a lot of confusion in social, economic and political set-up, workers are asking whether reforms in this industry will be put on hold because of corona or life will continue,” Andabwa said. He added: “We observe that because issues of reforms in this industry will affect about 700,000 guards and 2,000 employees, we propose that as we observe the government directives and other regulations as far as Covid-19 is concerned, life has to continue.”