SEVEN people who were quarantined by the government as well as two human rights lobby groups have sued the state for enforcing the protocol unlawfully and in a punitive manner that violates the constitutional rights of the citizens. The seven people alongside Katiba Institute and Kenya Legal and Ethical Network on HIV/AIDs Issues (KELIN) argue that the manner in the state agents are enforcing quarantine procedure was inappropriately punitive and that it was increasing public health risk rather than help curb it. The suit comes after numerous claims as well as video clips and photos emerged online over the last few weeks showing the quarantine centers crammed and those taken there forced to pay for their upkeep. There have also been numerous claims of police extortion against those found to have violated the curfew and that failure to produce the money demanded result in mandatory quarantining. “The petitioners seeks court urgent intervention to prevent the government from unlawfully detaining people in quarantine and in curfew breaker holding places for violating curfew and to ensure that human right standards are respected and protected in the quarantine facilities,” a statement by the two lobbies announcing the suit read in part. Katiba Institute executive director Christine Nkonge said determining the petition urgently was needful because the “mandatory quarantine is being abused and misapplied.” “The petitioners want to ensure that the constitution and the rule of law was upheld in this time of crisis. A pandemic does not suspend the constitution,” she added. On his part, KELIN executive director Allan Maleche said the quarantine is a public health intervention and not a criminal sanction. “Quarantine is a public health measure. It is not a punishment,” he said, adding that the response to the Covid19 pandemic should be justified, rational and respect people’s rights. “This is not only a requirement of law but also a feature of a necessary feature of an effective public health response,” Maleche said. The petition lists Cabinet secretaries for health and Interior as well as the attorney general as the respondents.