The family of a guard killed in a highway robbery 13 years ago will not receive Sh1.6 million awarded by the High Court from Wells Fargo Company. The security company successfully appealed the ruling of the High Court that Vitabulis Etyakoro had not been properly protected by the employer. Etyakoro was ambushed alongside his colleagues and two AP officers while transporting money from Molo to Nakuru. Their vehicle was sprayed with bullets by the armed robbers and he succumbed to gunshot wounds. The family sued Wells Fargo for failing to give Etyakoro protective apparel, including bulletproof vest and a helmet. They also argued that the company failed to make cash-in-transit vehicles bulletproof or armour-plated. The High Court agreed with the family. Justice Nduma Nderi ruled that Wells Fargo was liable and awarded the family Sh1,650,640. This was Sh1200,640 for loss of dependency; Sh150,000 for loss of life; and Sh300,000 for pain and suffering; interest and costs. Wells Fargo appealed the judgement. The Court of Appeal ruled that Wells Fargo had put the necessary measures to protect the employee. Appeal judges said in providing armed security personnel, the company discharged a reasonable duty of care to the man and others in the vehicle. The court also noted that the High Court should not have relied on the evidence by the widow who was not present at the place of attack. “The Judge failed to consider the testimony of Charles Ndeta and chose instead to rely on the testimony of the widow of the deceased, who was not at the scene, that the occupants were trapped in the back cabin and could not open from inside,” the court ruled. The judges acknowledged that the business of transporting cash had its risks and that is why the company engaged the services of Administration Police officers. “Without a doubt, the business of transporting cash has attendant risks,” they held. The Court of Appeal judges said while it was prudent to ask Wells Fargo to provide bulletproof vests and armoured vehicle, it was not an industry standard. edited by o. owino