Residents of Garissa living along River Tana have been urged to move to higher ground. KenGen has started releasing excess water from Masinga dam, which has filled to unprecedented levels, and this is expected to lead to flooding. Speaking in Garissa on Friday, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa said as of Thursday, water levels at the dam had reached an unprecedented 1,058 metres. He distributed rice, beans and sanitiser to flood victims camping at Young Muslim and Hyuga Girls Primary School in Garissa town. Eugene said the dam has never had this much water since it was built.  Construction began in 1978 and ended in 1981. "With such a level it means that it is the people downstream, like here in Garissa, who are going to bear the brunt. It's paramount that people move to higher ground to avoid loss of lives," the CS said. "These floods have killed more Kenyans than Covid-19 and we ask all of us to take precaution to ensure we do not add to this number." At least 194 lives have been lost countrywide since last month and the floods are relentless. Thousands of families have been displaced, with many more set to be uprooted from their homes. The most affected parts are around River Nyando, River Nzoia, River Tana and parts of Elgeyo Marakwet and West Pokot. Garissa Deputy Governor Abdi Dagane urged the national government to assist the county government to airlift food and other items to residents in parts of Hulugho, Dadaab and Mansabubu, which have been cut off. He also urged the national government to come up with a comprehensive long-term plan to manage floods. "Going forward it will be vital if the national government revives some of the stalled flood control projects like Rahole canal and the various proposed dams,” Dagane said. “This will go a long way in helping us mitigate the impact of these floods and droughts which have now become nearly an annual fixture." Present were Interior CAS Hussein Dhadho, Devolution PS Charles Sunkuli, Fafi MP Abdikarim Osman, county commissioner Meru Mwangi and county secretary Abdi Ali, among others. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya