Here is the thing, most of us have this delusional idea that coronavirus is out there, somewhere in a restaurant, seats of public transport vehicles, on a door handle of a public toilet, or on a water dispenser in a government hospital. Yes, this is actually true, the virus is indeed going around everywhere. However, what most people fail to understand is that this virus is able to survive on some surfaces for up to 12 hours, and that may include phones, tablets, and computers making it easy for one to still transfer it after using sanitizers. Imagine going back to work at the office having fully prepared - mask on face, sanitizers around the office, no sharing of desks, the works. A week later, a colleague is stopped from entering the office after registering a temperature higher than the normal range. A test later and he/she has Covid-19, a week later, another colleague starts coughing. The worker is tested and turns positive. Before you know it, most of your colleagues are confirmed positive for the virus. Surprised, you start to look for the one 'connecting factor' between all the masks, sanitizers, and the well-observed social distance you've all be observing while in the office. Since everyone has their own offices, you rule out possible handshakes and the possibility of physical contact infection. Furthermore, the workers in this particular workplace have vehicles and therefore leave the office separately - no contact there. So your immediate thought is on the doors. However, thinking about it, you realise all the staff members use their elbow to open the doors and end up cleaning their hands with soap and water immediately. So no, it's not the doors. Thorough investigations point to that small box used to get food hot in minutes -. the microwave. You realise that even though everyone carries their own food and eat separately in their own offices, all of you warm your food using the same microwave. It hits you that you never wash your hands after warming your food in the microwave. Guess what? Neither does everyone else, and just like that, you are all infected. While this is a fictional story, it paints the reality of how easy it is to contract the disease and spread it. As the country's Covid-19 infections passed the 1,000 mark on Wednesday, it's important for everyone to remain alert and responsible. Remember that in the place of a microwave, it could be a parking ticket or a computer that could make you contract the disease. WHO has advised on normalising washing of hands and cleaning of surfaces to reduce risk of infection.