Now, every day feels like a scene in an action thriller movie. Uncertainty is in the air. The world is confused about what would happen post-COVID-19. Will the world ever get back to normal? I don’t know what post-COVID-19 would look like; generally, people are unsure. I don’t pay attention to people recommending all kinds of strategies for after the pandemic from a certainty standpoint because we don’t know. But I know that the core of humanity will not change. We are people designed to love and be loved and that will not change. Also, we are creative beings – it’s in our DNA, and COVID-19 will not take that away. So based on these facts, how do we prepare for the new world post-pandemic? Here are three tips to help you. Humility: Now we need humility more than ever; I truly believe that the humble will thrive post-COVID-19. First, I need to put humility in context because I’m not talking about the common social or religious definition of humility. Here, humility is the willingness and capacity to learn, grow, and change. It’s an adaptive mindset. Humility is a skill that helps you reinvent yourself in a crisis and here is how. With a humble attitude, you are poised to unlearn, learn, and re-skill quickly. You know that this socioeconomic reality is a new terrain; you probably have not lived through a pandemic at this scale. So, to survive and thrive, you must learn fast, grow accordingly, and change quickly. Now, humility is a powerful skill to have. Collaboration: This is not the time to be a one-man army. It is time to create stronger networks if you wish to thrive. Your chances of success could be limited if you insist on going this stretch alone. Connecting with people across cultures, nations, and industries would give you renewed strength and leverage to successfully advance. In the post-COVID-19 economy, I suspect that the lone ranger is likely to have it rough. You’re better off joining your expertise or resources with others. Empathy: Post COVID-19, you would need to show people greater care and understanding. Now, smart entrepreneurs and businesses are finding ways to make their customers’ lives easier because many have been adversely affected by this crisis. Businesses that will thrive are those that enhance their customer care delivery. The harsh economic downturn has left many people stranded and they would need help. Those who would rise are those who would give customers a helping hand. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com