A survey has found that women in the transport industry reported frequent headaches among other problems linked to loss of jobs, presence of children at home, rent, fear of Covid-19 and food insecurity. They also lacked clarity of thought and had general anxiety. Fifty-two per cent of them stated that they are no longer in employment after the owners of the vehicles they used closed up shop. "It did not make economic sense for the owners to be operational, especially with the directive to maintain the carrying capacity of 60 per cent coupled with insurance charges and county fees," the survey revealed. It was conducted by Flone Initiative and randomly sampled 30 out of 70 women in the transport business. The women include drivers, conductors, booking clerks, and a mechanic. They have an average family size of three. Eighty-three per cent stated they were their families' breadwinners. They are currently relying on the goodwill of their former colleagues for short-term jobs such as helping conductors fill up vehicles. However, in some cases, male colleagues have asked for sexual favours in return for jobs. "In such cases, they end up taking home between Sh100 and 200 per day whereas as conductors they would take Sh600-1,200 per day," the report reads. The presence of children at home following the closure of schools put a strain on their food resources, especially for those whose children were in boarding schools. "Some of the women stated that they are currently leaving their children at their neighbours’ houses, an arrangement they considered unsafe but they had no options since they have to look for work,"  the survey found. Additionally, there is an extra burden to purchase data bundles for their children's internet access given that learning materials are currently sent on WhatsApp by school administrations. "They also have to spare time to assist the children with their studies, administer and assess examinations. As a result, some of them sent the children upcountry to ease the pressure," the report says. The women expressed concern over the risk of contracting and passing the coronavirus to family members and felt they would feel safer if they were indoors. However, because their jobs entail interacting with customers and handling money, it is not an option as they are relying on the money they make daily to buy food supplies. "Whereas sanitation measures have been put in place in most of the matatus, some passengers are reluctant to use sanitiser citing that they are fake. Additionally, there are so many sanitiser brands in the market and one cannot distinguish the genuine ones from the fake ones," the report adds. Some 97 per cent cited food insecurity as a concern because food is expensive following the supply chain disruption. Another 30 per cent of the women said they had defaulted on their rentals despite landlords demanding payments. "The women also expressed fear of being caught outside after curfew. There was a general fear of police brutality during the curfew hours," the findings read. The survey recommended that women in need should be supported with a weekly stipend of between Sh1,000-2,000 per household, safety equipment that includes 50 pieces of surgical masks and 10 bottles of portable hand sanitiser. It also recommended the development and dissemination of online campaigns that highlight the impacts of Covid-19 on women professionals in the transport industry and recognition of women in public transport as unsung heroes and essential workers. "Offers mental health best practices that can be shared via WhatsApp and establishing ways to provide mental health services and provides clear and practical productive communication on how to prevent Covid-19 infection targeted at operators and commuters," the report stated.