The family of slain Ramadhan Chitswa alias Mapenzi, who police said was an al Shabaab militant in Kwale, have disputed the police version of his killing and that of his three children on Friday. Police say Chitswa threw a grenade at them after defying orders to surrender. But relatives on Sunday said it was the police who used grenades to blow up the 42-year-old’s house to gain entry. Speaking at the Coast General Teaching and Referral Hospital, Chitswa’s family accompanied by human rights activists from Human Development Agenda and Haki Africa said Chitswa could not have used his children as human shields as police claimed. Rama Hassan, Chitswa’s brother, said police arrived at Chitswa’s house at around 10pm on Friday. His family was watching TV. “The police came and surrounded the house, set up grenades at the door before they blew it open,” Hassan said. The blast blew off the house door, window grills and the roof, he said. “Some children were injured in the blast,” Hassan said. He said the blast and gunshots scared them off and they had to wait up to around 2am when police had left for them to go to the scene. “They did not want anyone to come out of their house. We had to wait until around 2am when we heard the sound of their eight cars speed off. That was when we came out,” Hassan said. He said they only saw blood and brain matter in the house. All the bodies, including Chitswa’s, Swalha’s and Ramadhan’s, the three surviving children and Chitswa’s wife Mwanahalima Mwachili, who was eight-months pregnant, were not in the house. Haki Africa executive director Hussein Khalid said postmortem results showed that Chitswa had three bullet wounds in his head. “There were three bullet entry wounds at the back of the head and exit wounds at the front,” he said. Chitswa’s four-year-old daughter Swalha’s body had a gunshot wound in the head and another in the chest. “The body of Swalha had many different injuries indicating she might have been hit by the shrapnel from the grenade blast,” Khalid said. Six-year-old Ramadhan Chitswa had four bullet wounds, two in the head, one in the chest and one in the left leg. His body also had shrapnel bruises. The eight-month old foetus had its head disfigured by a bullet which went through the mother’s stomach. She is recuperating at the Kwale hospital together with three other children. Khalid said the absence of shrapnel on Chitswa’s body and their presence on the children’s bodies means they were in different places at the time of the incident. “If it is true that Chitswa was using his children as a human shield, why wasn’t his body having shrapnel bruises too?” said Khalid. Huda’s Jermain Kashi said it is wrong for police to end the lives of three innocent children just to get one suspect. “It is sad that police had to kill innocent children. One family has lost four people. The father and his three children, including the unborn child,” said Kashi. The family has agreed to have Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir present their case in Parliament for discussion. This is because Msambweni constituency is yet to have a replacement for MP Suleiman Dori who died on March 9. “We want justice for this family. We have already picked a lawyer who will represent the family. We will not allow the lives of innocent people, especially children, to be lost haphazardly,” said Khalid. Nassir said police were not different from terrorists because of the terror they unleashed on the Chitswa family. “This is barbaric. This family will never be the same again. I empathize with mama Mwanahalima Mwachili who has lost three children and a husband,” the MP said. He said police at the Coast were fond of using the war on terror as an excuse to execute suspects. “My appeal to residents Kibundani and Kwale county is to have them come out and record statements with IPOA and other rights groups so that this does not go away silently,” Nassir said. He said silence on the matter would only serve to embolden rogue police. The MP called on the Independent Police Oversight Authority to follow up the matter to its conclusion and have those culpable are jailed. According to Hassan, the 42-year-old Chitswa worked as a thatch roofing expert while his wife Mwachili is a primary school teacher. Edited by Henry Makori