 Chiefs who sneaked names of undeserving persons into the list of vulnerable families receiving weekly government cash transfers will be interdicted and made to refund the money. Nyeri Central deputy county commissioner Joseph Mwangi said legal disciplinary action will also be taken against the administrators. The government is currently sending cash to vulnerable families to cushion them from the effects of coronavirus. Mwangi said on Friday that the list was generated by chiefs and their assistants with the help of Nyumba Kumi officials in the villages. He said the administrators know those who are deserving in their localities better and that is why they were asked to generate the list. “Anyone who has a hint of any person who may have been sneaked into the list should forward the name to me for investigations and action,” Mwangi said. The administrator was reacting to claims by some members of the public that some undeserving people were listed to benefit. The vulnerable families have been receiving a cash transfer of Sh1,000 weekly to cushion them from the adverse effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. Among the beneficiaries are elderly people, those with disabilities, orphans and vulnerable children. About 3,723 households have been receiving the money for the last three weeks in Nyeri Central. “Those not receiving the cash yet are very few who we had put their names but had a problem with their identity cards which did not match their names. We are correcting that and will send back their details,” Mwangi said. Nyeri Central has the largest number of people benefiting from the fund as it has the biggest slums in the county. The slums are Witemere, colonial villages and Majengo President Uhuru Kenyatta unveiled an eight-point Economic Stimulus Programme and set aside Sh53.7 billion meant to cushion the economy from harsh realities of the Covid-19 pandemic. Out of the amount, a total of Sh250 million was set aside for weekly cash transfer programme to vulnerable families. On the national hygiene programme, the administrator aid names of 3,790 youths who are both skilled and non-skilled have been forwarded to authorities for engagement in the Kaazi Mtaani Programme. The youths will be engaged in the building of footbridges, cleaning of culverts, sweeping town streets and keeping general cleanliness. “We have forwarded their names and we are waiting for the go-ahead so that they can start working,” Mwangi said. In Nyeri South, deputy county commissioner Henry Ochako said 1,567 have been receiving the Sh1,000 weekly cash transfer.  Edited by P.O