Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has urged medical workers to be patient with the government during the global Coronavirus pandemic. Kagwe noted that there have been complaints from medical unions in regard to measures the government plans to impose to contain Covid-19 in the country. He said, there are also concerns about the delays in the delivery of promises made to them by the government. "I want to promise them, that we will deliver anything that we promised to the health workers. Sometimes these things take a little bit of time. We have to agree with the public service commission together with the Salaries Enumeration commission. Its something collective," he said. The unions and societies representing nurses, clinical officers, pharmacy technologists, nutritionists, laboratory technicians and other health professionals gave a 14-day strike notice on Monday, protesting government’s move to only promote doctors, leaving out other professionals in the critical sector. Kenya National Union of Nurses (Knun) General Secretary Seth Panyako described the government move as a direct provocation of other health workers who are the main front line workers in the fight against coronavirus in the country. The government had promised among other things, provision of free Person Protective Equipment to all front line medical workers, The CS reiterated that this is a time for everybody to make sacrifices. "We are not even asking you to make sacrifices in terms of what is due to you. But as far as being there is concerned and as far as treating our people is concerned," he said. "This is as you've continued to do. Not just through this pandemic but through other very challenging situations". Kagwe was speaking during the daily Covid-19 presser where he announced the highest ever recorded daily infections. He reported 45 new virus cases increasing the number to 535. Kagwe appealed to the Health Unions that their grievances can still be heard and absorbed. "We appeal to you that there is nothing that cannot be agreed upon. Let us just keep working," he said.