Kenya is incurring extra costs testing Tanzanian truckers at border entry points, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said on Tuesday. Kagwe, who was giving the Covid-19 briefing, said a mobile laboratory received from the East African Community will be installed at the Namanga border to reduce trucks' backlog. The CS said Kenya had 51 new Covid-19 patients, bringing the total to 963. Twenty-two people were discharged from hospital, bringing the total of those who have recovered 358. The new cases were from 1,933 samples tested in a day. So far, Kenya has tested 46,764 samples since the first Covid-19 positive case was announced mid-March. The cases comprise 32 men and 19 women aged between two and 62 years. “The (trucks) backlog on the Kenyan side has largely been cleared. The new protocol demands that you are tested before you leave. That way you will not be waiting at the border to be tested,” Kagwe said. He noted that failure by Tanzania to follow the protocol has led to a lot of cargo trucks delaying at the border. “The reason why on the Tanzanian side there is a backlog is not because of us wanting to keep them there. We want to clear them as quickly as possible but it is just that on the Tanzanian side they (truckers) are not tested. They are tested at a great cost to us,” Kagwe said. He said Kenya has to test them because "they are our brothers and sisters and we also want to do business with them". However, Kenya will not allow outsiders entry without a Covid-19 free certificate just like it will not allow Kenyan drivers to leave the country without  Covid-19 free certificates, he said. EAC and Regional Development CS Adan Mohammed said approximately 100-120 trucks enter Kenya from Tanzania through Namanga. He said a few Kenya-registered trucks had been denied entry into Tanzania. However, Kenya has not stopped processing vehicles from the neighbouring country. “Those are isolated cases and we are talking about five to seven vehicles that have been slowed down. They are on the Tanzanian side but they have not been allowed to proceed. We are dealing with some of these isolated cases and we hope we will be able to resolve that very quickly,” Mohammed said. He said Kenya has an electronic tracking system for all cargo that moves along the Northern Corridor between Mombasa and Malaba border, making it easy to know where the vehicles are at every stage. “There was an attempt for us to escort these people but that is something that is going to be extremely expensive. But if the situation demands it, we will do that. Tanzanian drivers have not been coming with certificates. That is why we have decided to do the tests at Namanga,” he explained. Kagwe said out of the 214 positive cases detected at the Kenya Tanzania border, 182 were foreigners. In Wajir, 14 out of the 16 confirmed cases had crossed from Somalia. Equally, the two latest cases at the Dadaab refugee camp had come from Somalia. Kagwe cautioned those feeling unwell to go to the hospital after 15 out of the total 50 deaths were home deaths. Mombasa leads in the number of deaths. “When you die at home, what it means is that the rate of infection and the rate of mortality is going to be a lot higher,” he said. He said the ministry will in the next couple of weeks add five testing areas in among other places Central region to help in knowing what is really happening around the country. Nairobi and Mombasa are leading in the number of positive cases. They account for 83 per cent of all the cases nationally. Nairobi has 470 cases followed by Mombasa with 331. Kajiado, Mandera, Kiambu and Wajir have 43, 18, 17 and 16 cases respectively. Other counties that have recorded more than 10 cases are Migori and Kilifi with 14 and 10 cases each.  - mwaniki fm