The year is 2020, Son of man is back after more than a 2,000-year sabbatical from earth. He is relaxing in Kibra with some ODM diehards discussing the politics of the day. The topic of discussion, ‘Blessed are those who put politics in their lungs, for they shall breathe it out’. No sooner has the discussion started than the Pharisees appear. “Son of man, Son of man! We found these screenshots and videos, this boys’ club members deserve everything taken away. Take their families, their money, their jobs, take it all!” Son of man looks at the receipts. “What of the women, what have they done?” “Oh son of man! They are golddiggers, prostitutes, women who have sex for money. They don’t want to work ‘honest jobs’ they want cheap money!” “Ok,” Son of man continues to look at the evidence. “What about their wives? Why are they being hang to dry on the same clothes line?” “How can any woman worth her salt stay with such a man? Don’t they know their worth? They must have known! There is no way they did not know. Furthermore,why can’t they satisfy their men? Some of them are even pretty, and these men are still out here!” Son of man looks at them and said,”Verily I say unto you, he that hath no sin, produce their phones and unlock them for the public to go through your texts, WhatsApp chats, DMs, Tinder, etc.” One by one the crowd started thinning out until there was no one left. Now, before you get excited, I am not condoning the ‘boys’ club’ actions. We just need to get things into perspective. First, boys’ club, you are uncouth and uncultured. If those videos and pictures are legit. You cannot violate people’s (women’s) privacy like that. I really wonder if you have anything besides ear wax in your heads. Why are you so excited by sex? Haven’t you been having it? Why do you think no one will believe you if you just said you had sex? As if that’s not enough, you now want us to feel sorry for you with the long essays. Stop trying to explain yourselves to strangers. You owe us nothing. Explain and make it right with your wives, those women you violated, your employers and clients. To the one(s) who ‘exposed’, I do not feel ‘spilling the tea’ was the way to ‘teach’ those fops a lesson. You have caused embarrassment to a lot of innocent women. Wives included. If you really wanted to help the women, especially the ones whose videos were taken, you would have reached out to her (you would have found her, I have faith in your abilities), shared those videos with her and asked her to seek legal redress. The ones shouting that the women are cheap, I will say it again, we have believed in the lie that those women who sleep with men for ‘free’ are better than the others. What a woman does with her vagina for gain or naught is her personal problem, unless you lent her yours. Besides, why are we so pained by women who would rather date, marry or whatever a man who has something? What is this ‘poverty martyrdom’ you expect from women? Also, what is cheap money? Stop trying to shame women. Then there are the ones with self-esteem overdose who know how and why to stay in relationships. What is good for the goose, you, is not always good for everyone. Mind your business. Finally, the ones giving unnecessary sermons and those seeking to thrive on embarrassing and ruining people. You are in the same wozzup group with hyenas,fleas and Judas Iscariot. “God has not given us a spirit of fear”, so stop using fear of losing all one has to make them act right. Unless your God is a slave master. We have free will. The principle we should live by is, actions have consequences. What type of sad person would you have to be to glory in wrecking people’s lives? Who made you the moral police? “Correct one another in love.” For a predominantly Christian country, plenus stercoris es (you are full of s–t.)! fellyoyuga@gmail.com