The government is concerned about a rise in deaths from Covid-19 in the communities. The most recent case was reported in Nairobi’s Eastleigh estate. Two other people died in Mombasa. So far, 29 people have died from the disease in Kenya. The government also fears that infections in Migori and Wajir could have been imported from Tanzania and Somalia respectively. Eastleigh was put on lockdown after recording the highest positive cases in Nairobi. The estate has 77 Covid-19 patients after nine more were confirmed from 230 samples tested. Old Town, another hotspot in Mombasa was also locked down to stop the spread of the coronavirus in the region. “The issue of deaths at the community level is a real concern to us. That is a sign of intense community transmission of the disease and we have seen a similar pattern developing in Eastleigh,” Health director general Patrick Amoth said. He said such deaths are signs of a severe form of the disease. Those who take care of such patients and those close to them are at higher risk infection, Amoth said. He appealed to those who feel unwell with any of the signs and symptoms of Covid-19 to call 719 for action. Covid-19 symptoms include dry cough, high fever, difficulty in breathing and general body weakness. The ministry has warned those sneaking out of Eastleigh and Old Town that their actions will hurt the fight against the disease. Some Eastleigh residents are believed to have moved to South B and South C to escape lockdown. Those in Old Town still use alternative routes to move in and out of the estate. “In case one is an asymptomatic carrier from one place to another in the spirit of brotherhood we will welcome all our relatives and friends to stay with us. But at this particular juncture, that would be a mistake to make,” Amoth said. The number of Covid-19 cases in the country rose to 607 after 25 more were confirmed by the ministry on Thursday. The 25 were from 1,075 samples tested. Seven more people were discharged from the hospital. It takes the number of recoveries to 197. The new patients are aged between two and 87 years. Twenty-one were men and four women. A Ugandan, Tanzanian and a Chinese national were the only foreigners among the confirmed cases. Out of the confirmed cases, 17 are from Nairobi, while two each were from Kajiado and Wajir. Migori, Mombasa, Isiolo and Nakuru each recorded one case. At the moment, 198 people are admitted in various health facilities across the country. Four are on supplementary oxygen support at the Coast General Hospital. Meanwhile, patients who had been stuck in India due to travel restrictions landed in the country on Thursday. The citizens, most whom had travelled to India for treatment, landed at JKIA in the evening. Health Chief Administrative Secretary Rashid Aman said the government will facilitate their subsequent self-quarantine within their homes. (edited by o. owino)