The Enterprise Cup is set to be scrapped in a raft of proposals being proposed by clubs ahead of the season restart following the coronavirus pandemic. The country’s oldest cup competition is set to be sacrificed as clubs look at completing the season that has heavily been disrupted by the virus. The tournament had reached the semifinal stage with holders Kabras set to take on Homeboyz and KCB facing Impala. Sources close to the Kenya Cup caucus had said with a congested calendar, it was prudent to shelve the knockout cup competition in order to finish the league. “We are facing tough times and with a small window to finalise the fixtures, we have decided to shelve the Enterprise Cup so that we finish the Kenya Cup,” added the source. Kenya Cup caucus chairman, Xavier Makuba, said they have proposed that the season resumes in July. Makuba said contrary to public opinion, the players will only need three weeks of training to complete the playoffs and finals. “We don’t need six weeks of pre-season. Just three weeks and the players will be good to resume the remainder of the season and compete,” he added. He said players will train in June and the fixtures will be played in July. “I am optimistic everything will be finished in time for the start of the Sevens circuit,” he said, adding: “We had three weeks to seal the season and if all goes well, we should complete everything by mid-July.” The proposals have been sent to the fixtures committee headed by Hillary Itela with a decision expected later in the week. Homeboyz were due to play Menengai Oilers with the winner advancing to the semis, where they were to face champions KCB, who finished second in the pool stage. League leaders Kabras, on the other hand, were to meet the winner between Impala and Mwamba. The Championship, Nationwide and other regional leagues had also entered the playoff stage. Elsewhere, England Rugby and Umbro announced a four-year partnership on Tuesday for the UK-based sportswear maker to supply kits for the men’s, women’s, sevens and age-grade teams from September 1. Umbro will take over from Canterbury as the England team’s kit supplier. No financial details of the deal were given. “We are delighted to be entering this new chapter,” England Rugby chief commercial officer Simon Massie-Taylor said in a statement. More renowned for making kits for soccer teams, Umbro has experience in rugby union, having supported each of the home nations, many clubs and the only British and Irish Lions team to win a series in New Zealand, in 1971. “The partnership between Umbro and England... is a seminal chapter in our history,” Umbro Managing Director Anthony Little added. “The first time the England rugby team runs out onto the pitch, wearing the double-diamond logo, will be a proud moment for us, as an English brand.”