Majority Chief Whip Irungu Kang'ata has narrated how he sent emissaries to talk to Senate Deputy Speaker Kithure Kindiki. "I do not have to give evidence why I moved the motion. There was a meeting scheduled on May 11; it happened that we sent a notice to various senators and Kindiki did not attend," Kang'ata said. Speaking in the Senate on Friday, Kang'ata said in the event that Kindiki did not receive the message, he ought to have updated his records with the party. "There was no apology rendered to the party. Having been given this position by the party, it has the right to take it away from him," he said. Kang'ata said that the matter was highly publicised in the media and everybody knew that there was a meeting. "He failed to attend the meeting and therefore the party lost confidence in him," he said. Kang'ata said he sent emissaries to talk to Kindiki, but there was no change in his stance. "I even later talked to him for an hour and he told me he wants a written document from the party. When the party appointed him, he was not given a letter," he said. "Parties are very central to Kenya's democracy and therefore we must be allowed to give confidence and withdraw confidence." Kang'ata said President Uhuru Kenyatta has a manifesto that everyone has to follow. "I urge those in Jubilee , toe the party line and ensure the President achieves his vision," he added. Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja said if there was no reason for Kindiki's appointment, then there is no reason for his disappointment. "The same reason we appointed Senator Kindiki without reason is the same reason we can remove him without reason," he said. Sakaja told Kang'ata that the more he talks on the floor of the House, the more he gives Murkomen time to interject him. But in a quick rejoinder, Elgeyo Marakwet Kipchumba Murkomen said it will be wrong for senators to rush and vote. “I do not agree with Senator Sakaja that we must rush and just vote, perhaps Mr Speaker we are haunted by our conscience and the shame that comes with the things we are about to do…" he said. But Speaker Kenneth Lusaka asked the senators to respect each other. "I want to assure you that I went to school and properly, respect each other," Lusaka said.