Newly promoted National Super League side, Silibwet FC have identified Gusii Stadium as their home ground. Head coach Leny Kigen said they are also considering playing some of their home matches at Kericho Green Stadium and Narok Stadium. “Nearly 80 per cent of the players and technical bench are attached to Keroka Technical Training Institute. The players are students at the institution and to reduce expenses, Gusii Stadium is the better option,” Kigen said. He regretted that their home ground Silibwet grounds does not meet standards of hosting NSL games. “We have a good fan base at Silibwet. It’s sad that most of them will miss our matches,” Kigen added. Kigen further revealed that they intend to bolster the squad by signing four players.  “I don’t want to overhaul the squad. That is the mistakes most teams do after getting promoted. I will sit down with my technical bench and agree on the areas that we need to strengthen,” added the tactician. Kigen said he is keen on bringing on board Nixon Sinyo from Zoo Youth, Derrick Anami and Vincent Misikho both of Kenya Premier League side, Zoo FC. “They are students at Keroka TTI and that is why we are keen on them. However, they are under contract at Zoo and we shall talk to the management of their respective clubs,” he said. He noted that he will further strengthen the team after the first round matches. Kigen also revealed that the club’s management team will be constituted by next week and their biggest task is to seek sponsors. “In Division One, we were struggling but we don’t want it to happen in NSL. We have not been paying players but in NSL, we want them to get some allowances,” said Kigen. The promotion of Silibwet FC brings to two the teams from Bomet County. Administration Police Service Bomet survived relegation narrowly. “I’m happy that we now have two teams from Bomet. This will increase competition and also grow the standards of the game in Bomet,” concluded the coach. On Thursday last week, FKF general secretary, Barry Otieno, announced the cancellation of the 2019/2020 season due to the coronavirus pandemic and used first leg standings to promote and relegate teams. Consequently, Silibwet who were on top of FKF Division One Zone B were promoted alongside Zone 'A' leaders Mwatate. Soy FC and MCF FC will meet in a play-off to determine the third team to be promoted to the second-tier league.