@Yobramos4 Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho on Monday took a more moderate approach to convince Likoni residents to test for the coronavirus. On Saturday, Joho admonished Old Town residents for failing to turn up for the test, something they did not take lightly. Governance experts faulted Joho for his authoritarian approach towards the Old Town residents. The area has become the epicentre of Covid-19 in Mombasa, with more than 48 cases recorded. On Monday, the governor was tested in public for coronavirus in Likoni. He was accompanied by Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir and their host MP Mishi Mboko.  A huge number of residents volunteered to be tested. “I plead with you, social distance please,” Joho said as he launched the mass testing drive in the subcounty. The authorities had targeted 500 people for testing but projected they would surpass the number. Joho urged the residents not to be afraid of the test because the government will take care of those found positive. “Your county government and national government will not let your hand go. So don’t be afraid of being positive. “If found positive, we will take care of you until you recover and go back to your family,” he said. Coast Civil Society Network chairperson Zedekiah Adika on Tuesday said the mass testing will help in the fight against Covid-19.  Public health officers will know what direction to take, he said. However, Adika said the way information is communicated or implemented is key. “Any pronouncement from the governor must be one that encourages people to go along with interventions,” he told the Star. The human rights lawyer said scolding people will only lead to rebellion like the Old Town residents have done. On Monday, Old Town residents attempted to prevent health workers from picking a patient with Covi-19 symptoms from the area. In a clip that has gone viral, men with no face masks are seen roughing up the health workers in an ambulance. They then threaten to beat up the health workers should they be seen in the neighbourhood again. “The moment you scold people, you create an environment of defiance and once there is defiance with this Covid-19, then you are going to erode all the good things you have done,” Adika said. He called for a proper communication strategy that is in sync with the circumstances on the ground. Adika said concerns of the people of Old Town must be considered and addressed, a point supported by ANC national chairman Kelvin Lunani. Speaking to the press on Tuesday, Lunani said Old Town residents should not be forced to go for testing. “Instead, they have their local leaders including religious leaders, the area village elders and others who can be approached and be asked to help in sensitisation of the people,” Lunani said. He said chest-thumping and using threats will not work. “We are fighting an enemy who does not need brute force to defeat. The enemy just needs tactics and brains,” Lunani said.  Joho and Nassir on Monday warned that the government will deal with those threatening the lives of public health workers. Mboko said getting tested is the first step of a winning strategy against the coronavirus. “Let us get tested please,” she urged her constituents. Nassir said those threatening health workers who are going about their business will not be spared. “Insulting me of Joho is no problem, but any action that threatens to harm health workers will not be tolerated,” Nassir said. The leaders said people will be allowed to self-quarantine should their houses meet the specifications announced by public health officials. They said the county will waive quarantine fees for those unable to pay. (edited by o. owino)