Nairobi residents will soon have another place to relax, picnic and take leisurely walks when the ongoing rehabilitation of Michuki Memorial Park is completed. The Kenya Forest Service will take over its management to ensure drug users, street children and idlers do not bother residents and visitors out to relax, walk and picnic at the facility named after the no-nonsense Kibaki administration Environment minister John Michuki. The park was established in 2012 and is situated along Nairobi River between the Globe Cinema roundabout and the far end of Uhuru Highway. It is in the neighbourhood of Kijabe Street, Kipande Street, the National Museums of Kenya, Hotel Boulevard, Nairobi University's School of Diplomacy and the Norfolk Apartments. Michuki, now deceased, won admiration and accolades for his enthusiasm and determination to clean and preserve the environment. In 2009, he was internationally recognised for redeeming Nairobi River. The United Nations Environment Programme presented him with a certificate recognising his efforts to clean the river, which had been choking on human and industrial waste. The park was neglected soon after he was moved from the environment docket. KFS Nairobi head of conservancy Charity Munyasia told the Star that the takeover has been finalised. “It will be managed by KFS just like the Nairobi Arboretum and Karura Forest. We are involved in cleaning it,” Munyasia said. Munyasia said 58 tree species have  been identified for planting at the park. More will be added. “Any tree species to be planted in future should be the one not in the park to ensure diversification," she said. Munyasia said the park will be fenced off to enhance security. Five rangers have  been posted to the relaxation facility. A community forest association will be formed to ensure sustainability, the KFS official said, noting that environment management laws acknowledge the critical role played by local communities in managing forests. Karura Forest has an active community association. It attracts hundreds of paying visitors daily, especially on weekends. Munyasia said they will work closely with neighbours such as the National Museums of Kenya and University of Nairobi. The other key players are the Ministry of Environment, National Environment Management Authority, Kenya Water Towers Agency and Nairobi Metropolitan Services. Yesterday, KFS Chief Conservator of Forests Julius Kamau told the Star that the Kenya Forestry Research Institute will be helping them to maintain the park’s biodiversity. “Nema also has to come in as far as solid waste management is concerned,” Kamau said. - mwaniki fm