North Rift county assemblies will resume work, some via video conferencing and some with social distancing and other coronavirus control measures. The counties will also reduce the number of MCAs allowed to attend physically, while most will be convened through virtual forums. They suspended operations a month ago because of the coronavirus pandemic. Some assemblies, such as Uasin Gishu, will only hold one plenary session per week. Others that will resume include Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi and Trans Nzoia.  Leader of the Majority Josphat Lowoi and Majority whip Gilbert Tenai said MCAs must continue their oversight role, especially during the coronavirus crisis, to ensure funds are well-spent and not wasted on personal gain. “Just as Parliament is doing at the national level, we also have to continue with our oversight role to ensure that county executives do the right thing in the fight against the virus," Lowoi said. He said the assemblies have to approve some measures and use of resources by county governments to mitigate in the Covid-19 situation. “We also need to follow up on how the national government and counties are extending assistance to vulnerable Kenyans who have been affected by the coronavirus crisis," Lowoi said. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago who is also the chairman of the North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb), said the governors in the region would also discuss how to restructure their budgets and put in place an economic recovery strategy. “Most of our county operations have stalled and we are now focusing on Covid-19. Projects that had been lined up have stalled so we must work together on the way forward," Mandago said. Tenai said assistance for vulnerable people should be channelled to all who deserve aid and no one in targeted groups, including the elderly, widows and those living with disabilities, is left out. Elgeyo Marakwet MCAs last week approved a supplementary budget covering Covid-19 measures and mitigation of flooding.  (Edited by V. Graham)