Fourteen people who came into contact with Isiolo's first Covid-19 patient have been traced and quarantined, Governor Mohamed Kuti has said. He said another 50 who come into contact with them are being traced. Kuti spoke to reporters at Garbatulla Subcounty Hospital where the patient has been isolated. “The patient had travelled by bus from Isiolo town to Garbatulla, with further reports indicating that he had spent a night in one of the lodges in Isiolo town after arriving from Eastleigh in Nairobi,” Kuti said. Movement in and out of Nairobi and four other counties has been banned but people are sneaking in and out. Those quarantined include the man's relatives, workers at his shop in Garbatulla town and three others in Garbatulla and Merti subcounties who travelled with him from Nairobi to Isiolo on the night of April 29. Kuti said samples from the 14 contacts had been collected and taken to Nairobi for testing. He said at least 70 people linked to the first case are expected at the Garbatulla High School quarantine centre. “My administration has already procured food for those placed either under quarantine or in the isolation wards,” Kuti said. He said the isolation ward's capacity has also been increased from 20 to 70 beds in anticipation of more cases. Kuti criticised residents who shared the patient’s personal details, including photos, on social media, saying it was unethical. The governor apologised to the man's family. Kuti said two additional vehicles had been deployed to assist health and security teams in contact tracing. More personal protection equipment for frontline health workers was also given out. Residents of Garbatulla town have been on high alert after the case was confirmed. They are observing the guidelines issued by the World Health Organisation and the Ministry of Health to curb the spread of the disease. Elder and former councillor Boru Dida Ali said locals were strictly keeping social distance, wearing masks and regularly washing their hands with soap and running water. “As part of measures to protect myself and family, I ensure I sanitise money before handling it. I urge other members of the public to keep on adhering to the laid down guidelines,” the man, who operates a shop in the town centre, said. Edited by P.O