A death row convict who violently robbed a church caretaker and raped his wife will now serve 20 years in jail after winning an appeal. Apollo Olenja was convicted and sentenced to death in 2014 after the court found him guilty of robbing James (not his real name) and gang-raping his wife with his accomplices. The trial court also sentenced him to serve 20 years in jail for gang rape. However after his first appeal, he was set free on the charge of gang rape but the High Court upheld his death sentence. Olenja moved to the Appeal court. In a judgment delivered by Appeal Court judges Jamilla Mohammed and Ole Kantai, they observed that Olenja was a first offender and noted what he said in mitigation. They noted that Olenja attacked the complainant and his family in their home and committed the robbery and in the process inflicted injuries on him. “Considering all circumstances and factors of the case, we set aside the sentence imposed and substitute thereof a sentence of 20 years’ imprisonment from the date of conviction. The upshot is that the appeal against conviction is dismissed while the appeal against sentence is allowed,” the judges ruled. The court heard that James who was the caretaker of a Deliverance Church in Kakamega and lived with his family in the church compound. On October 24, 2012, he was asleep with his wife when at around midnight he heard the door being banged and four people entered. They carried torches and were armed with rungus and pangas. The intruders ordered him to remain quiet and started touching his wife as if they wanted to rape her. James tried to raise his head but the intruders hit him on the head with a panga and tied up his hands and legs. His wife testified that Olenje pulled her out of her bed, dragged her out of the house and ordered the other assailants to rape her. She said there was moonlight and she was able to identify him because of the appearance of his face and ears. They only stopped raping her when Olenje came out of the house and ordered her to go back into the house and lock the door. It was her further testimony that shortly after the rape ordeal, she ran to the house of their neighbour, a priest, and informed him about the ordeal. The reverend accompanied her back to the house where they found James tied up and seriously injured. They untied him and took him to hospital. James was not able to identify any of the intruders but later realised that his mobile phone, radio, computer monitor and clothes were missing. Edited by Henry Makori