Is South Mugirango MP Sylvanus Osoro (pictured) plotting to ditch Deputy President William Ruto's camp? The vocal lawmaker and a heretofore staunch supporter of the DP held talks with Kenya National Congress Party leader Manson Nyamweya at the latter's posh Karen home. The meeting was also attended by Bomachoge Chache MP Alfa Miruka, another DP ally. The Sunday meeting triggered speculation about the duo's next move after photos emerged online. Manson is a close ally of Opposition chief Raila Odinga and his counsel to the two politicians could be useful when the DP's allies are being tormented. *** Do you remember the 36 bloggers? Yes, the ones stationed at a big government office? Sources whisper to Corridors their jobs are on the line. Their boss who regularly gave them briefs no longer works for government. In fact, he is unwanted in some circles. But even more serious is that the bloggers are being used to push narratives against some faction in government. Call it biting the hand that feeds you. They were used in a recent controversy over how Jubilee tenders in the last election were awarded. Some say the bloggers have outlived their usefulness. *** An influential Cabinet Secretary has ruffled feathers in his swanky office. Reason? He has chosen his own tribe to fill positions for those working closely with him.  The latest recruit is his own cousin who is his close aide and manages his diary. Once in the office, one could be forgiven for thinking it's a village baraza where their native language appears to be the only mode of communication. This violates Public Service regulations on the use of unofficial languages in government offices. To make matters worse, the CS is said to have assigned at least three of his relatives official cars, which they use even outside working hours. *** A chief executive officer at a fairly plum state agency could land himself in trouble soon. The CEO is said to have used the divide-and-rule principle to render the board dysfunctional. It is alleged that efforts by the chairman to convene a board meeting to decide on his new term have been futile. The CEO's manoeuvres have denied the chairman a quorum more than four times to vote on the termination of the CEO's contract. There are reports that the chairman underestimated the CEO's influence until he convened meetings that were snubbed by the majority of the members. The official is keen on having his term renewed. The chairman's term expires in July. The CEO's term ends in August and he hopes that a board without the current chair would favour him.