Loaders at Old Port in Mombasa have been allowed to resume work. Goods have been lying at the port for almost a week after the loaders were affected by the cessation of movement order against Old Town. The government on May 6 stopped movement into and out of Old Town to slow the spread of coronavirus. The area has recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the county. On Monday, Interior CAS Hussein Dado said they received complaints from businessmen who said their goods had stalled at Old Port. Tonnes of maize flour, cooking oil, rice, sugar and beans have been lying at the port for almost a week despite being ready for transportation. Dado said the government has sorted out the issue and loaders can resume work under special conditions that they must adhere to. “...the county commissioner will give special permission for loaders to come and load the goods into boats for transportation so business continues,” he said. Dado and Coast regional coordinator John Elungata, however, said there are encouraging signs that things will soon get back to normal in Old Town. The two visited the town on Monday. Elungata said residents are now more cooperative than they were two weeks ago. “We are seeing some success. If we continue this way, then the government objectives and those of the leadership of Mombasa will be achieved,” he said. The objectives are to reduce infection to zero and ensure a fast return to business. Elungata and Dado said the curve is beginning to flatten as cases go down in Old Town. On Sunday out of 242 samples tested in Mombasa, 10 were positive. Only one was from Old Town. “This means the curve in Old Town has started to flatten. If this continues, your government, which is merciful, will gradually relax some of the restrictions,” Dado said. He called for more cooperation. Elungata said most businesses in Old Town rely on Old Port, whose operations had ceased because of the absence of the loaders.  “Transportation of goods has not been stopped,” he said. The goods are transported to other seaports, including Lamu, Kilifi and Shimoni in Kwale. Dado urged Old Town residents to persevere for a few more days, saying historically they have been resilient and survived invasions by the Portuguese and the Arabs. “They have fought and survived many battles. So the coronavirus is a small battle for them if they cooperate. They have survived raids before,” he said. Dado urged residents to get tested for Covid-19, saying it's free. Many people in other areas yearn to be tested but cannot because the test kits are few and they are being forced to pay, he said. “Here, the government has waived the testing fee. Results are out within a short time and if there is no need for quarantine they will not be quarantined,” the CAS said. The government recently announced it will pay for quarantine for those who test positive. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya