Workers at Thwake multipurpose dam in Makueni county have expressed fear that workmates returning from counties on lockdown could bring coronavirus to the site. A group of workers told the Star on Monday that they were living in fear of being infected with Covid-19 after interacting with workmates from Nairobi, Mombasa and Nakuru counties. Mombasa and Nairobi are the epicentres of the virus in the country. “We are living with them in the same compound, sharing public toilets and even eat with them at the food kiosks. We are not sure if they are infected,” said a worker who has rented a house in Katithi market near the site. The workers, who did not want their identities revealed, said they wanted those reporting back to work tested first and quarantined away from the site before being allowed to join them. “How can the government allow people from infected counties to stay with us? We feel insecure and what we are appealing for is for them to be taken away for quarantine and testing before they are allowed to work here,” another worker said. Makueni MP Daniel Maanzo said he was following the matter with the Ministry of Health to ensure workers at the site are tested. The legislator suggested legal action will be taken against those responsible should it be found that workers returned to the site without testing and travel permits from relevant authorities in their home counties. He said he was aware there were people who returned to work but he was yet to know their home counties. He asked those complaining to identify who returned to the site from the counties on lockdown and report them. “I appeal to those at working in Thwake dam site not to victimise workmates if they are not sure of their home counties but they should also not live with people they suspect,” he told the Star in an interview. He urged those working in the site not to travel far when off duty to avoid coming into contact with people infected with Covid-19. Makueni Health executive Andrew Mulwa said he had information that some workers who had been laid off would be recalled but had no information on how they got back to the site. “I had been informed they had documents allowing them to travel from their home places but I am not in the know of what they did when they returned to work,” he said. Mulwa said those working in the dam site will be their first target when Makueni county begins mass testing. Edited by E.Kibii