President Uhuru Kenyatta has failed to govern Kenya and the evidence is galore. Without Raila Odinga, Uhuru cannot run the Country. Amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, floods wreaking havoc in various counties such as Garissa, Kiambu, Tana River, Busia and Bungoma. Without a strategic policy direction, Uhuru’s government is a total failure and we need new governance. On Covid-19, for example, we have a Cabinet Secretary talking about numbers that we do not need to hear about. The dead, those tested, infected, and many more numbers are not necessary to the general population. How about the numbers of how many doctors, nurses and other quantifiable clinical officers serving Kenyans in the counties? What about the number of available ventilators? What about the number of intensive care units (ICUs) or high dependency units (HDUs) the country has? And how many doctors are we recruiting? When and on what terms? Nurses are crying! Flood victims are drowning. And we are busy issuing State House orders, per the moment when we deem necessary? We are extending the curfew and emergency orders without ground reasons? And all with a fiat! God bless Kenya! UHURU'S FAILURES Uhuru is the worst President that Kenya will have! For now. Who would wake up in the night or day and issue such orders? We require a strategic leader in State House. Many have opined so. Even if they are not liked by the Uhuru administration. Personally, I opine so hereunder. Most of the failures are occasioned by mismanagement of governance. No one rules a country and counties by fiat. Only by intelligence. Article 239 of the Constitution creates the National Intelligence Service for Kenya. With due regard, in Article 240, we created the National Security Council that is chaired by the President. Incapable leadership was demonstrated when Kenya Human Rights Commission (the NGO) went to court. That Uhuru and William Ruto cannot lead this country. That was then. Now it is demonstrable that they cannot. Kenyans are complaining in the villages and hamlets all over the country. Kenyans are yearning for better times under President Mwai Kibaki. Again, evidence is galore. That is why people are asking very difficult questions, especially under the Covid-19 situation. What will Kenya look like after the global pandemic? Kenya has Uhuru…unequivocally. We have seen what has happened in United States, the United Kingdom, Italy, Brazil, Spain and France. Under poor leadership, countries have succumbed and bad leadership is to blame for the results. There is no doubt about that. Without President Donald Trump, Boris Johnson, Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte, and the rest, the world would have become better under Covid-19. We have taught leadership. We know what that means. ACCOMMODATING OPPOSITION Part of Uhuru’s failures is to accommodate his own opposition. Any political scientist worth of repute knows what this sentence means. Uhuru has spoiled the game of politics and this is because he is not vying for office. That is a grave mistake. His advisers are wrong. Ditto. No one assumes the obvious. Do not punish the errant. Make them your friends and dethrone them. Make them kings. Deal with them later. Do not deal with them when we are watching. Those are words from the 48 Rules of Power; from the effervescent Nicollo Machiavelli. Uhuru is killing himself. In Kiambu, where I live and where he comes from, he is disliked. I have done enough inquiries about him. Uhuru cannot even get 100 votes. Unless he steals. My summary is very short: Uhuru needs to think about his future. It is not politics. It is business. He should concentrate there. Kagwe is a political scientist. The views are personal.