Fears of a disease outbreak have hit a camp hosting over 400 flood victims in Naivasha due to cold weather coupled with poor living conditions. There are fears of respiratory diseases among the victims who have been camping in Ndabibi Secondary School for the last two weeks. The families were displaced when Marmanet dam in Eburru Forest burst, sweeping away houses, farm produce and other personal effects. World Vision donated relief supplies and seeds to the affected families while Nakuru county moved in to drill a new borehole after the dam broke. World Vision area coordinator Irene Kibon said the families were prone to pneumonia as many were sleeping on the cold floor. She said overcrowding in the classes was another challenge that the families were facing at a time the country is battling the Covid-19 pandemic. “We have come with personal effects to assist these families who are camping at the school and it’s time to find a lasting solution to this perennial crisis,” Kibon said. She warned there could be food shortage in semi-arid areas in the next six months as all farm produce had been washed away by the floods. “We have donated assorted seeds to them as part of addressing food security, and we are encouraging them to plant trees to avoid soil erosion in the coming days,” she said. Area MCA Gathariki Kamanu admitted there were fears of disease outbreak in the camps and directed those who were able to return to their farms to do so. “The national and county governments have done their part, and we are asking those whose houses were not demolished by the floods to move back to their homes,” he said. He said the burst dam supplied water to over 10,000 residents, adding that the county had sunk a borehole to address the current water shortage. One of the affected persons, John Kamau, said individuals and organisations who diverted water from the nearby Eburru forest was the main cause for the floods. “We are happy that the government and other individuals have come to our rescue, but we should deal with those people who have encroached on river banks and diverted water to farms,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori