Family conflicts and gender-based violence cases are on the rise due to frustrations occasioned by the Covid-19 pandemic. Glory Outreach Assembly Church (GOA) based in Kahawa Wendani in Ruiru subcounty has raised the alarm over the increase in family break-ups and other social ills, including sexual and physical abuse. Rev Joyce Njeri Munyiri a counselling psychologist said the church has been receiving numerous cases of violence and conflicts. Njeri said many people are stressed because of lack of basic needs, especially food. “Most men, who are breadwinners for their families, have lost their jobs and are unable to sustain their families during this difficult period. Also, most women from this area are casual workers who do menial jobs to earn a living, and currently, they do not have jobs,” Rev Njeri said. She spoke on Wednesday at the church while distributing food to needy residents. “Couples are now staying indoors and have nothing to eat, and no money to settle bills, including rent. This has caused fights to erupt and the repercussions are either grave injuries, separation, or both,” Njeri said. The cleric said most men have turned to illicit brew. Valarie Nyanjong, a mother of four from Kwa Ng’ethe in Githurai, is one of the victims of domestic violence. She said she was kicked out of her matrimonial home by her husband three weeks ago. “He lost his job after the firm he was working for laid-off workers. He resulted to brewing chang’aa and became violent all because he couldn’t raise money to cater to the family needs. When he became too violent I left with my children and sought refuge elsewhere,” she said. Nyajong said the main problem during the pandemic crisis is getting food to feed her family and money to pay rent. “Things are thick and everyone is angry. If families get enough food to see them through this pandemic, I think conflicts will reduce.” Bishop David Thagana said the church, which has spread its wings to Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi and Malawi, came up with a feeding programme for the most vulnerable in Ruiru subcounty and other parts of Kiambu in a bid to alleviate the challenges they are facing due to the pandemic. He said at least 1,000 needy residents have received food supplies to sustain them for two months. “We have been distributing foodstuff including rice, green grams, maize, beans, black beans, and cooking fat to the needy. It’s a well-coordinated programme where the most vulnerable are the beneficiaries. Also, victims of family conflicts and violence are on our programme because most of the cases are caused by lack of food,” he said. Bishop Thagana said the church has also introduced a programme dubbed “peacebuilding and home conflicts” geared towards offering counselling to victims of social and gender-based violence as well as mediating between quarreling couples and finding a solution. The clerics' sentiments were echoed by Thika-based counseling psychologist Gladys Chania who said relevant authorities should chip in and help reduce the cases. She called on families to resolve their problems amicably. “People should try to understand each other and get new coping mechanisms,” Chania said.  