Despite bagging his sixth Kenyan Premier League title, veteran Gor Mahia custodian Boniface Oluoch is a bitter man. Gor were controversially declared the 2019/20 champions by the Football Kenya Federation and consequently were entered as the representatives in the Caf Champions League. However, while taking the bull by the horns, Oluoch blamed football administrators for the sorry state of the top-flight league in the recent years. The shot-stopper was at pains to express the financial challenges bedeviling players despite walking around with the champions' tag and playing at the highest football competition in the country. He took a swipe at KPL for failing to pay the prize money for the past season and failing to assure them they will get a trophy and monetary incentives for retaining their title once again. The goalkeeper said the Sh4 million handed to the champions at the end of the season had directly contributed to lack of competition in the top flight and wants all stakeholders to increase it and ensure that player welfare is improved too. "We were declared champions but the truth is that the players have nothing to celebrate about it. We are not sure if they will give us a trophy and medals and most importantly, backdate the payment of the prize money from our previous triumphs," said Oluoch. "It's time the organisers of local competitions got serious and invested heavily. It's sad that clubs spend millions of money contesting for Sh4 million which KPL gives as prize money." He added: "At Gor, the pride of winning the league is earning the rights to play Caf matches. Players no longer enjoy being labeled as Kenyan champions. It's time stakeholders revamped local competitions to increase the level of competition, raise the status and improve the welfare of players," said the former Kenyan international. Meanwhile, Oluoch is targeting to help the club sail to the elusive group stages of the continental tournament next season. Gor have in the recent past came too close in writing their name in the pools but going past the final hurdle has proved to big a challenge. Oluoch believes that should the management invest in logistics and in the playing unit, then they will deliver. "I have always wanted to see the club advance to the group stages of the Champions League and this will be my target next season. The players are always ready but the never-ending issues are always a letdown. If the management can ensure travel logistics, salaries and allowances are paid on time, I am sure we will make it," added the former Tusker man.