Lawyer PLO Lumumba on Wednesday described in somewhat novel Kiswahili, women who get married to many men and leave all of them as “kirukamito”. While he was referring to political defections, bloggers seem to have become the latest “kirukamito”. Take, for instance, a blogger with a huge social media following who initially supported an opposition leader. After a few meetings with  influential people, he shifted his loyalty to the government. He has lately become one of the strongest critics of Deputy President William Ruto (pictured) after singing his praises for years. Sources said there could be a cold war between him and another popular blogger associated with the DP’s office. *** An influential politico who lost in 2017 has triggered a political earthquake in his rural backyard. He is whispered to be considering switching his political base to his rural village. County gubernatorial aspirants for 2022 are said to be crying foul that they are finished if he runs. The politician has deep pockets and many consider him presidential material. Sources said many meetings, attended by opinion leaders, have been held and the politician was persuaded he needs to get the backing of his 'natives'. They believe this will prepare him for bigger assignments post-2022. His would-be competitors are in tears as they have already spent a fortune criss-crossing the county. *** Just how hard can it be for some people to accept accountability? Well, a water boss seems uncomfortable with people snooping around his private affairs. The man now wants an employee at his agency sacked for testifying against him. The employee had sworn a tell-all affidavit of how the boss got married to a colleague at the entity in breach of conflict-of-interest prohibitions. The company has now written to the employee whom it accuses of failing to keep company secrets by whistle-blowing their once-tightly held secrets. But the management of the agency says the move is breach of trust, confidentiality and amounts to gross misconduct. *** An influential Jubilee governor currently fighting off graft charges in court could once again be on the radar of investigative agencies. This time, for organising and financing a demonstration against an investigative agency. Corridors understands that the county chief planned a recent demo of residents ostensibly to compel the agency to allow the residents to use a facility which it ‘clamped’ months ago pending investigations. The agency is investigating the governor in relation to the multimillion-shilling project whose cost the investigators believe has ballooned. The protesters staged the demos right outside agency’s offices, where they hurled abuses at a top investigator, forcing the police to fire  tear gas canisters at them.