Boda boda operators will benefit from a Sh3 per litre discount if they join Boda Boda Safety Association of Kenya. The discount will only be enjoyed by those who fuel at Rubis Energy filling stations countrywide. This was disclosed on Friday at a function presided over by President Uhuru Kenyatta at the Pumwani Social Hall, Nairobi. Rubis is a French fuel distribution multinational which recently acquired KenolKobil Plc and Gulf Energy Holdings Ltd. The company is currently rebranding the filling stations previously under those brands. President Kenyatta told the operators not to be used by politicians for selfish gains. He said the boda boda sector has the potential to expand into other commercial sectors through the fuel discount savings. The President told the riders not to be taken advantage of through handouts during political campaigns. "You’re a sleeping giant that only needs to be awakened … there is nothing that you can’t achieve," he said and again cautioned the operators not to be used for some people's political expedience. Rubis general manager Martin Kimani said the riders will be given special cards to use when fuelling at the company's filling stations. For every litre of fuel bought, Sh3 will go directly to a new investment fund for the operators. The banker will be Kenya Commercial Bank while Novas, a private equity fund, will manage the investment. The discount applies to diesel, unleaded petrol and kerosene. The riders will also save Sh10 per every kg of cooking gas purchased from Rubis. All the money saved, estimated to run into millions of shillings per day, will go to the fund which will be regulated by the Capital Markets Authority, Kimani said. Loans will be available to the riders against their savings at the investment scheme. Comprehensive insurance covers will also be available as well as payment of fees related to the licensing of their bikes. BSAK chairman Kevin Mubadi said the investment vehicle will revolutionise the industry and uplift the living standards of its 5,100 members. The association expects more riders to join subject to training on safety and discipline. The largely unregulated sector is notorious for indiscipline and chaos. ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru said the government is considering to involve technical vocational education and training institutions in training the riders. “Our interest is to have this sector streamlined so that it can effectively serve millions of Kenyans in every part of this country,” Mucheru said.  - mwaniki fm