The two families that have fought for decades in this country are the Kenyattas and Odingas. When Mwai Kibaki and Raila Odinga parted ways, we suspected there was a hidden "hand" that was calling the shots. Today, Raila and President Kenyatta's families are visiting each other. Uhuru’s brother goes to Raila’s Bondo home and Raila attends Uhuru’s family events. Raila’s events are now State House events. So, in politics anything can happen. Kibaki was an opponent of Kijana Wamalwa. Wamalwa was Jaramogi Oginga Odinga's deputy but was opposed viciously by Raila. Charity Ngilu was with Kibaki in 1992 but they later split. Yet in 2002 they were all in one winning camp. Raila was detained by President Moi for nine years. But Raila, in 2001, trooped to Kanu and occupied the highest offices at KICC and Nyayo House. In 2002, Uhuru and William Ruto were together as presidential aspirant and chief campaigner. They fell out in 2005 until 2012. They have now been in government for eight years together. Their current falling-out has only happened openly in the last one year – since 2019 – and accelerated in 2020. It will not be surprising if the two work together again, in any case, one is the President and the other is his deputy. They are constitutionally joined at the hip. Uhuru cannot sack Ruto unless he instigates impeachment or takes him to jail. Our politics is full of contradictions, chicanery and irony. It is a complex, insidious web by the political elite. It will not be surprising to find Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi, Raila, Uhuru and Ruto on the same table. In any case, until October 2002, Kalonzo, Musalia, Uhuru, Raila and Ruto were at the topmost echelons in Kanu. If these people were together then, who's to say they cannot come together now? In any case, who said they were separated? Who is facilitating all the decorated events for Ruto at Karen? He is holding all his meetings (delegations) in the official residence of the Deputy President. With total state décor and glamour. How comes none of these delegations has ever been stopped by the crafty intelligence whose expertise in tapping phone calls is proverbial? How is the daily massive cash expended cleared at Central Bank? The person who should actually be worried is not Ruto but Raila. The former Mukurweini MP spoke to the Star