Parents have welcomed the government’s move to halt further reopening of schools following a surge of coronavirus in recent weeks. National Parents Association chairman Nicholas Maiyo told the Star Tuesday that parents were already getting sceptical because of the reported Covid-19 cases in schools. He said most parents were already against the full reopening of schools even before Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha announced a pause. “Parents were really getting concerned, and it’s a good thing the government considered not reopening the schools until further notice,” Maiyo said. “We are in total support of this decision by the government because if all the classes reopen, the contact will be too high.” All primary and secondary schools reopened on October 12 for learners in Grade 4, Standard 8 and Form 4. The three classes account for 2.8 million learners. On Sunday, Magoha said the government will not authorise the opening of the rest of classes in private, public and international schools because of an increase in the number of coronavirus cases. Classes that have not reopened will remain closed until the government advises otherwise. Magoha warned against failing to abide by the rules. Maiyo said the Ministry of Education consulted with parents before arriving at the decision, which has been welcomed by many parents. “We have agreed with the ministry that if the level of spread is below 5 per cent, we can manage the situation, but should it go high, then parents will stop their children from attending school,” he said. He said the rate of positivity could go up if the rest of the classes reopen, given that day schools comprise 70 per cent of total learners, who are capable of causing community spread. Maiyo applauded the government for the move and added that it would be better if those at home continue to stay at home and wait for the curve to flatten. The government is monitoring the affected institutions after dispatching technical and medical support to them.