Most of the time, parliamentary committee chairs and members will breath fire whenever people they have summoned ask for more time to prepare their submissions. Their dignity is offended. This was the case when the Senate Standing Committee on Land, Environment and Natural Resources invited Tourism CS Najib Balala (pictured) to respond to queries about a camp built along Mara River that blocked the wildebeest migration. Balala asked for two weeks to file responses and as usual, the committee was on his case. It emerged, however, that the committee delayed dispatching the invitation, much to the embarrassment of members. The committee apologised and said it would be following up invites with phone calls, just to make sure they were received in time. A female lawmaker who chairs a crucial House committee is now a worried woman after her zeal in executing committee duties angered a senior politician who had influenced her installation. The lawmaker in one of her assignments spearheaded a damning report that embarrassed the government. The evening the report came out, Corridors learnt the MP received a call from the politico demanding to know why she was  sing the position bestowed by the party to ridicule the government. Nowadays the lawmaker hardly invites media to her committee meetings, claiming she doesn’t "war with my seniors". Meru Senator Mithika Linturi was humbled when he was reminded that he could not audaciously walk into the chamber when Speaker Ken Lusaka was delivering a communication to members. Kilifi Senator Stewart Madzayo, rising on a point of order - and overriding etiquette - pointed out in indignation that Linturi had walked across the chamber as Lusaka himself was speaking. In his defence, Linturi said he has been a legislator for a long time and was well aware of the rules, but admitted that he might have erred. He offered to walk outside and then come in again at the right time -  and, of course, bowing in reverence before entering the 'august' chamber.