President Uhuru Kenyatta's allies are now plotting how to remove his deputy William Ruto from office. The Star has established that plans are in high gear to ensure that Ruto is no longer the country’s second in command by December. The fresh move is aimed at ensuring that Ruto does not have at his disposal state resources to continue building up his 2022 machine. Ruto’s allies are however laughing off the plot daring Uhuru’s men to execute their plan. Catch the details of the new Jubilee battlefront in the Star on Tuesday. Despite the optimism expressed by ODM leader Raila Odinga on the release of the Building Bridges Initiative report, the Star has established that State House has no plans for the release. Raila had on Sunday said that the report would be released in a few days. But sources indicate that there are no plans on President Uhuru Kenyatta’s side to have the report released in the foreseeable future. DP William Ruto has moved to consolidate his grip on Rift Valley politics ahead of the 2022 polls. Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok and his Uasin Gishu counterpart Jackson Mandago have come out to declare that they would fully support Ruto’s “Hustler” movement in 2022 to ensure he succeeds President Uhuru Kenyatta. This comes amid a series of meetings being held by Baringo Senator Gideon Moi to also strengthen his Kanu party and attract more political bigwigs from the region to his side ahead of the elections. Mandago visited Homa Bay in Nyanza where he declared that although his term as governor was ending in 2022 he would remain steadfast in backing Ruto. You might be required to continue wearing your mask, sanitising, avoiding gatherings and keeping social distancing even when a Covid-19 vaccine is approved. More than 200 vaccine candidates are undergoing clinical trials, with at least three being in the final Phase 3 trials. A team of researchers have argued that the vaccine once rolled-out might not be a silver bullet. They have argued that several challenges are likely to be experienced for some time in relation to the access, manufacture and storage, efficacy of the vaccine as well as public trust and vaccine hesitancy. The experts argue that initial vaccines might not work for everyone and might provide short term immunity. Spending by Kenyans has begun to creep up, a survey by Standard Chartered bank indicate, as businesses adjust to new curfew hours that have been adjusted to between 11pm-4am. 49 per cent of the surveyed Kenyans, in the study that involved 12,000 adults across 12 markets, reported increased spending in July. About 93 per cent of Kenyans said the pandemic has made them more careful with their expenditure (75 per cent globally), the highest proportion of any country surveyed. Reflecting this increased caution, 91 per cent of Kenyan respondents said that the economic impact of Covid-19 has made them more likely to track their spending.