Ninety-seven health workers in Mombasa have tested positive for Covid-19 since the outbreak of the disease in the county. Of that number, two nurses have succumbed to the disease. This emerged when the Public Health ministry confirmed that 20 students and two secondary teachers had tested positive since schools reopened. In a report, Dr Salma Swaleh, the county Public Health director, said Tononoka Boys Secondary School had 16 cases out of 120 samples tested so far. She did not, however, give a breakdown of the number of teachers or students affected in the school. Star of the Sea Secondary, she said, had four positive cases out of 156 tests conducted in the last one week. Cumulatively, the two schools posted 20 confirmed cases, including the death of Tononoka Secondary School principal Mohammed Khamis, who the Star established had pre-existing conditions. Khamis, who had been admitted to the ICU section at the Coast General Referral Hospital, was buried at Kikowani Cemetery on Monday, a few hours after he succumbed to the virus. Dr Swaleh confirmed that total admissions as of yesterday at the Coast General Hospital stood at 38 patients. “The facility has a bed capacity of 150, so we still have not reached the level of a crisis we are managing,” Dr Swaleh said. County commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo had on Mashujaa Day said that major hospitals in Mombasa county were full to capacity and would not be admitting new patients. And in a press briefing, Mombasa Kenya National Union of Nurses secretary general Peter Maroko said besides the two nurses who have died, six others have been infected with Covid-19 in the last two weeks. Five of them, he said, are in home-based care. "The number could be high because we are not privileged to have this information since the government knows who and who has been affected," he said. Meanwhile, nurses who have been complaining of delays in their September salaries will issue a strike notice next week. They have been on a go-slow since last week. Edited by A.N    