Doctors in Mombasa have struck a deal with the county government to end their strike. The medics went on strike on September 28, citing perennial salary delays, lack of promotions and non-remittance of statutory deductions. However, after daylong negotiations with the County Public Service Board on Friday and part of Saturday, they agreed on a return-to-work formula. A few loose ends still needed to be tied before the strike is officially called off. “We can confirm that every labour relation issue that starts in turmoil doesn’t necessarily need to end in turmoil,” said Abidan Mwachi, Coast branch secretary of the Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union. Mwachi said on Saturday about 190 doctors will be promoted. Some of them had stagnated in their job groups from as far back as in 2006. “I'm very certain that normalcy will be seen soon,” said Mwachi, adding that moving forward things will have a better outlook. Service board chairperson Farida Abdalla said they are committed to ensuring health workers get the best support to help make the county healthy. She said henceforth, the board, which is fairly new having been incorporated less than eight weeks ago, will take necessary measures to prevent such crises through consultations with sector players. "Issues of employees are dear to us and we regard all matters as urgent.” Patients in public hospitals have borne the brunt of the strike, with claims that in extreme cases, some had to bribe nurses and other health officers to be diagnosed and treated. The doctors complained that some of them had been blacklisted by the Credit Reference Bureau for defaulting on loan repayment. “As with any employee with a loan, our employer, the county, has been deducting amounts but not remitting them to our banks. Most of our members have had to stay without money as their banks have taken part of their net salaries," Mwachi said on September 25. "When the payments are due, sometimes you get demand letters from the banks." The doctors also complained of occupational risks after working without comprehensive medical covers. Ironically, many of them have had to pay from their pockets to access medical services.