The World Health Organization has expressed concern over increasing cases of coronavirus. Hospital admissions continued to rise in the past week as intensive care units began to rapidly fill up. The global health agency says everything possible must be done to reduce the risk of Covid-19 transmission. In Kenya, the positivity rate has tripled in the past month, coupled with a steady rise in hospital admissions. On Wednesday, 1,060 patients were admitted while 4,230 were in home-based isolation and care. The positivity rate stood at 15 per cent Thirty-six patients were in ICU, 18 on ventilator support, 14 on supplemental oxygen and 23 in the high dependency unit. “Many health workers, who have themselves gone through immense stress and trauma, are still on the frontlines, facing a fresh wave of new patients,” WHO director-general Tedros Ghebreyesus said. “For governments, it means doing the same things we have been calling for since day one: know your epidemic. Break the chains of transmission. Test extensively. Isolate and care for cases. And trace and provide supported quarantine for all contacts.” According to the latest report by the Senate ad hoc committee, there are 7,411 isolation beds in the country and 312 ICU beds against a projected demand for 14,100 beds. In Eldoret, for example, Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital is said to be overwhelmed with new cases of the virus, with ICU beds already full. In Nakuru, patients have to scramble for beds at the Nakuru Level 5 Hospital isolation unit that has only six beds. Only Mombasa, Nairobi, Kakamega, Machakos, Makueni, Garissa and Mandera have been able to meet the 300 minimum isolation beds capacity recommended by President Uhuru Kenyatta. “Once you have the upper hand, it’s important to strengthen health systems, the health workforce and contact tracing systems so that the virus doesn’t take hold again,” Ghebreyesus said. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe warned of severe disease and cautioned Kenyans against laxity that has been witnessed across the country. “When you look at critical care, it tells you that we are getting a more severe form of the disease,” Kagwe said. "What is also unique in this second part of the infection is that all age groups are affected. We are losing more and more people who are young and who do not have any coexisting medical conditions.”  Edited by Henry Makori