The Wajir government has allocated Sh60 million for 2020-21 bursaries and scholarships. On Saturday, Governor Mohamed Abdi urged school heads not to send students home for fees. Already Form 4, Standard 8 and Grade 4 learners have resumed learning. He said his administration was obligated to assist parents facing hard times due to the Covid-19 crisis that has generally hurt the livestock business — the economic mainstay for the majority of the residents. “Very soon the funds will be out. I trust the structures and committees put in place to disburse these funds will target appropriately and ensure that no poor child drops out of school due to lack of fees,” said Abdi. "We understand that it is difficult to run the schools without money and that is why we have chosen to continue committing a substantial amount of funds to this very noble cause. I, therefore, would not wish to see school heads sending students home under the prevailing circumstances." The governor commended the other bursary providers, saying there is a need to have a standard operating procedure on the management of bursaries so only the needy benefit. “By establishing a common registry and only targeting the needy and deserving cases, I'm fully convinced no student will miss fees to advance his or her education,” he said. To promote girl child education, Abdi said his administration has supported the construction of a perimeter wall around Wajir Girls National School, the only girls national school in the county. During the last financial year, the county disbursed Sh82 million bursary cheques to 8,890 secondary and 2,780 college students. Those eligible were identified from all the 30 wards through the County Bursary Committee. Wajir, among other counties in Northern Kenya, is already experiencing a severe drought, which has led to the depletion of pasture and water. The National Drought and Management Authority has already issued an alert over declining livestock health and milk production. A report prepared by the government agency states that the average distance to water for both households and livestock is increasing by the day as most animals and households rely on water pans. The county has, therefore, allocated Sh150 million as an Emergency Fund to tackle drought.