Kenyan fintech company, Jambpay, on Tuesday signed a deal with Blantyre City Council (BCC) in Malawi for automation of revenue collection. In the deal, JamboPay, will develop and operationalise an automated revenue collection infrastructure for BCC. Web Tribe limited – JamboPay holding company – signed the contract with BCC in Blantyre City –Malawi. The company will finance, build and operate the revenue collection infrastructure for the Council for 10 years. Speaking during the signing ceremony, BCC Mayor Wild Ndipo said that the move to partner with Jambopay was geared towards increasing transparency in revenue collection and providing efficiency to the Citizens of Blantyre City Council. Ndipo said that the automation will seal revenue leakages associated with manual system that the Council has been using. On his part, JamboPay CEO Danson Muchemi thanked the BCC and Private Public Partnership commission of Malawi for the partnership which he pointed out will lead to efficiency and transparency in revenue collection for Blantyre City. “We look forward to deploying our many years of experience in electronic payments and our robust technology towards the realization of better services and improved revenue collection by the Blantyre City Council” Muchemi said. Parking Payments in Blantyre will be among the services that will be digitized under the arrangement which the Council hopes. JamboPay has 11 years’ experience in electronic payments in East Africa. It operates in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania and Ghana. The company was the first local company to automate revenue collection in the country. The firm collected revenue for five years before the contract ended. Currently, the company has presence in a number of counties and government institutions including the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF). It provides digital payments services to over 5,200 organizations enabling revenue collection on mobile, Web, Banks and over a network of independent agents. The company has announced plans to list at the Nairobi Stock Exchange in four years.