Lobbies have warned that hundreds of trapped wildlife around Lake Naivasha face death due to lack of pasture. With land around the lake flooded, the animals have been pushed to nearby estates, while tens of others are trapped by fences, raising fears of starvation and even human attacks. In the last couple of months, the lake has flooded the environs and displaced tens of wild animals, leading to an increase in cases of human-wildlife conflict. The chairman of Friends of Lake Naivasha, Francis Muthui, said tens of zebras, giraffes, antelopes, wildebeest and buffaloes have been displaced. He said on Sunday that the animals had moved onto neighbouring estates and highways in search of pasture, leading to fatal attacks. Muthui noted that due to the fencing that had encroached on the lake, it was impossible for the animals to freely move to the northern part where there were ranches and more pasture. “The only solution in relocating these animals towards Marula farm and Morendat area is to open all the fences that have encroached on the lake and this will ease their movement,” he said. This was echoed by Wildlife PS Fred Segor, who admitted that cases of hippo attacks around the lake were on the rise with 10 lives lost so far. He blamed this on the rise in water levels in five Great Rift Valley lakes, a phenomenon that had displaced hundreds of wild animals. The other lakes are Turkana, Baringo, Bogoria and Nakuru. “Around Lake Naivasha, we have recorded an increase in cases of hippo attacks and this is due to a reduction in pasture land,” he said. On the rise in water levels, Lake Naivasha Water Resources User Association chairman Enock Kiminta said the lake was becoming shallower every year because of human action on informal estates in Naivasha and the catchment area. “There are proposals to construct a dam in Aberdare and this will in the future kill Lake Naivasha and the flower and fisheries sectors, which are the economic mainstay for thousands,” he said. Lake Naivasha Riparian Association secretary Silas Wanjala, for his part, said the lake is becoming shallower at a rate of three centimetres a year. "The flooding has been caused by the high amounts of silt being washed into the lake, making it shallower and hence flooding nearby farms and Kihoto estate,” he said. Wanjala warned this had affected the quality of water in the lake and risked the fisheries sector that had employed hundreds of people.