National Assembly Leader of Majority Amos Kimunya has opposed the proposal to hold off on passing the BBI report to give time for views to be given and possible changes to be made. “This process has been going on for the last two years…for how long are we going to keep the people of Kenya crying saying they want to see change?” he said. Kimunya spoke during an interview with Citizen TV on Tuesday night. He also said the BBI report will not expand the Executive, but rather it is more of a reorganisation. "We are actually not creating new positions.... " he said, adding that balance will be achieved as some positions will be scrapped. The BBI report has proposed the creation of the office of the prime minister and two deputies, all appointed by the President. The proposal has been at the core of the President’s argument to cure the winner-takes-all system and enhance inclusivity in government. However, Deputy President William Ruto has questioned whether the report will solve the problem. “The President will appoint the PM and the two deputies from the winning coalition. And then we will have the runners up being the leader of the opposition. The question I am asking myself is, have we sorted out the winner-takes-all question?” he posed. He added, “For example, we have the president, I am the DP, [Amos] Kimunya is the PM because he is the leader of Majority, Jimmy Angwenyi (National Assembly Chief Whip) as the deputy and Maoka Maore as the other deputy, what happens to the whole Nasa brigade?” he asked. Ruto asked the proponents of the BBI to initiate an open and honest discussion on the question of inclusivity to bring on board the millions of poor, unemployed Kenyans who have been bogged down by the ravages of Covid-19. He identified what he termed as gaps in the report, saying they risk eroding the gains the country has made in her journey to democracy if not discussed and appropriate changes made to the document. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi also highlighted his concerns on the BBI report, saying it needs 'refining'. "When it comes to matters devolution, the articles that have been touched tend to downgrade the role of the Senate when it comes to allocation of resources to the counties. Senate is the anchor to devolution.," Mudavadi said. "I think that requires a review. Not a rejection but a review.