The chief tax collector has lost a legal battle in which it demanded Sh378 million in arrears due to delayed audits by Export Trading Company Limited. Judges William Ouko, Gatembu Kairu and Fatuma Sichale dismissed an appeal by Kenya Revenue Authority to overturn a High Court decision that quashed the tax arrears demand against the company. “In our view, and in the circumstances of the present case, it is unfair and unreasonable for the appellant to have demanded the shortfall of duty four years down the line,” they said. At the High Court, Justice Winfrida Okwany had also dismissed KRA's case, saying the move amounted to an infringement on rights of the company. The money in question is the tax for rice importation. In the case, KRA sought to recover Sh378 million from the company as tax arrears. Export Trading immediately moved to court to challenge the move. The lower court held in favour of the company, making a declaration that the demand for taxes by KRA violated its rights. Okwany quashed the demand and issued an order restraining KRA from seeking to recover the money. Aggrieved by the decision, KRA filed an appeal on May 2, 2019, in which it listed eight grounds for the demand. The taxman faulted the High Court judge for failing to find that it acted within the law, which, it said, permits it to carry out post-clearance audits within five years of importation. The judge had held that the move by KRA to carry out the post-clearance audit nearly four years post-importation was irrational and unreasonable. In its letter, KRA had asked the company to pay the shortfall of Sh378 million being the tax due of Sh228 million, penalties of Sh138 million and interest of Sh11 million. It said that failure by Tradex/Simba systems to capture the correct tariff rate was an error attributable to humans or systems. However, the company said KRA’s act of omission in failing to update its Simba system could not be visited upon it, adding that since the rice was imported for resale and the resale prices were informed by the duty chargeable, it was unconscionable to demand the taxes four years down the line. The rate of tax payable for rice imported from Pakistan is 35 per cent, whereas for rice imported from elsewhere is 75 per cent. The post-clearance audit carried out by KRA established that there was a short levy of taxes because of the wrong import duty rate which was applied in respect of rice imported from Myanmar, Vietnam and Thailand by the company between 2008 and 2009.