All the producers of electronic waste will be responsible for post-consumer disposal, the government has said. Director of Environmental Education and Awareness Dr Ayub Macharia on Tuesday told a web seminar regulations on the Extended Producer Responsibility 2020 were being finalised. His department is under the Environment ministry. “E-waste is subject to EPR (Extended Producer Responsibility) schemes. Producers expected to coalesce together to establish Producer Responsibility Organisation,” Macharia said ahead of Wednesday's International E-Waste day. Macharia said only one Extended Producer Responsibility is anticipated for electrical and electronic equipment. However, the National Environment Management Authority can allow more Extended Producer Responsibilities based on the complexity of the equipment. E-waste refers to all electrical or electronic equipment that is no longer functional, fit for purpose or has been discarded. Macharia said all producers of such waste must be registered by Nema and be members of appropriate Producer Responsibility Organiaations (PRO). “All producers to pay fees to PRO for the execution of EPR obligations. PRO to execute EPR on behalf of the members,” he said. Macharia said PROs will procure services of E-waste recyclers, collectors and transporters prior to annual Nema licensing. PROs will submit two-year EPR plans prior to Nema registration. “PROs will declare volumes of E-waste processed annually [and] declare funds invested in waste management. Both PRO and Producer to be prosecuted in case of breach of EPR obligations,” Macharia said. Macharia said there is inadequate data on E-waste in Kenya. “Kenya had a total of 57.3 million mobile phone subscribers by June 2020. The internet users were 41.5 million by June 2020,” he said adding that there is 119.9 per cent mobile penetration. Macharia said the Last Mile electricity connection programme led to increased use of electrical and electronic equipment. Draft E-waste regulations have been submitted to the National Assembly. Macharia said E-waste is being dumped everywhere while huge volumes are being held by consumers. He said Kenya is faced with poor tracing mechanism while the informal handlers operate in a secretive way. The few recycling firms in the country include WEEE Centre, Sinoment and Enviroserve. Macharia, who spoke during the East Africa Communications Organization webinar, said there is inadequate e-waste handling infrastructure. (Edited by V. Graham) 