Ten chiefs and their assistants have been interdicted over laxity to end female genital mutilation in the Kuria community. At the same time, six police officers who helped in the arrest of the culprits will be promoted, county commissioner Boaz Cherutich said at Kehancha on Monday. He was addressing a delegation led by Gender and Public Service Chief Administrative Secretary Rachael Shebesh, Migori Woman Representative Pamela Odhiambo, Gender Principal Secretary Collete Suda and Anti-FGM board chair Agnes Pareiyo. “Police and chiefs are the best link to fight the vice as the community knows the action is illegal and need enforcement to end the vice,” Shebesh said. The delegation met chiefs and their assistants. The Kuria community is notorious for FGM. The region does not have a rescue centre and girls who escape the cut seek refuge in centres run by activists. “We have talked with the administrators and we have interdicted 10 chiefs and their assistants over laxity to fight the vice as the government looks for ways to set up a rescue centre,” Shebesh said. She said a rescue centre started at Nguruna by former Migori Woman Representative, who is now nominated MP Dennitah Ghati, should be completed. Activists have in the past cited political standoff between Ghati and Odhiambo as the reason the project had stalled. Over 200 girls have sought shelter elsewhere. Some have escaped the cut three times. Odhiambo said the structure at Nguruna was shoddily done and is in an isolated and insecure place notorious for FGM. “The Nguruna centre is isolated and it is a risk.  We are ready with bedding and other infrastructure once we are offered security at the centre,” she said. According to her, the best place for a rescue centre would be outside Kuria where FGM is not prevalent. Pareiyo said even without a government rescue centre they have been helping those manned by activists. Cherutich said they will work with Odhiambo’s office to secure the Nguruna centre. Ghati told the Star by phone on Monday that the Nguruna rescue centre was her dream and promised to have it completed and functional. “Cases of FGM in Kuria have been on the rise. I started community activism against the vice in the area which brought out the need for the centre which will be completed by like-minded people,” she said.  - mwaniki fm