Deputy President William Ruto has been accused of dishonesty in his calls for the improvement of the Building Bridges Initiative report. Nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi yesterday said Ruto’s demand to have the BBI document reviewed is dishonest and is a scheme to derail the constitutional amendment process for personal political gain. Osotsi said it was mischief for Ruto to lecture Kenyans on the weaknesses in the proposed amendments to the supreme law when he and his backers declined to present their views to the BBI task force when it was visiting regions. "Ruto is simply preparing the ground for mischief to delay the review process and kill the whole initiative by calling for reopening of the document for improvement. President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga will be letting Kenyans down if they heeded the DP’s advice," he told the Star on the phone. Osotsi said though some areas require a review, that can be done through a parliamentary process during public participation, not reopening the whole process. The DP was heckled during the launch of the BBI report at the Bomas of Kenya, Nairobi, as he made his case against the proposals. He cast aspersions on an expanded executive, the creation of a national police council chaired by a Cabinet secretary and a "weak Senate". "The president will appoint the PM and two deputies from the winning coalition. And we will have the [first] runners-up being the leader of the Opposition. The question I'm asking myself is, have we sorted out the winner-takes-all question?" he asked. But Osotsi said those opposed to an expanded executive are not genuine as they were driven by the urge for raw power. He said the problem of the winner-takes-all system under the 2010 Constitution began in 2013 when President Kenyatta and the DP entered an arrangement for a 50-50 sharing of government. He said the proposed changes will not increase taxpayers' burden as the positions of prime minister, two deputies and official leader of opposition already exist, as they will only replace the leaders of Majority and Minority and will only earn responsibility allowances. Osotsi said the grand coalition government formed after the contested 2007 presidential election results remains the only government that performed well.