ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has put together a team of constitutional experts to study the Building Bridges Initiative report before he declares his stand on the document. He said he will further advise party members and supporters on whether or not to support the report after he receives feedback from the team next week. Mudavadi also advised Kenyans to carefully read the report before making any pronouncements about it. “It is a 200 plus page document. I urge Kenyans to take their time and carefully look at it before making any pronouncements on it,” he added. Already, there have been mixed reactions from leaders on the document, which was handed to President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga on Wednesday. Some politicians have opposed the document, saying it will be a burden to Kenyans, while others are urging Kenyans to adopt it. Allies of Deputy President William Ruto have termed the report 'baseless and unnecessary' and have vowed to lead a 'no campaign'. But speaking at his private office in Nairobi on Thursday, Mudavadi said leaders should allow Kenyans to study the report and let them decide if it is a document worth supporting. “Leaders should encourage people to read the document for themselves and decide if it is what they have been yearning for. Nobody should decide for the people,” he stated. On whether the country would witness a return of a powerful President, Mudavadi said it is too early to come to such a conclusion. “There are many proposals in the document, and we do not want to make any pedestrian declaration,” he said. Mudavadi further urged the government to ensure the document is circulated to as many Kenyans as possible. “At the moment, it is being shared online but they should make it available to all Kenyans after its official launch next week,” he added. Kenyans will be taken through the report on Monday at the Bomas of Kenya in Nairobi. The BBI is the brainchild of Uhuru and Raila and was conceived in March 2018 after the famous Handshake between the two leaders that ended hostilities that followed the 2017 election. A task force was created to look at nine issues, including ethnic antagonism, corruption, lack of national ethos, safety and security, inclusivity and devolution, as some of the main problems bedevilling the country since Independence. Edited by A.N