The Education ministry has renewed calls for stakeholders to rethink the second phase of schools' reopening. Education CS George Magoha on Thursday said the ministry will soon be meeting stakeholders to reach consensus on the reopening of schools. “If we have a consensus, then we will be able to tell you when the rest of the schools will reopen,” he said. Magoha spoke as he inspected the delivery of desks bought under a Sh1.9 billion tender stimulus package at Uhuru Gardens Primary School in Nairobi. The ministry in September okayed reopening for finalists in universities and KCPE, KCSE candidates. It also approved the reopening of those in Grade 4, who are the pioneer class of the new curriculum. The renewed calls come at a time when the ministry is staring at a possible double intake of learners in Form 1, if schools are not reopened soon. Magoha said the state has no intention of closing schools again even as the number of Covid-19 infections continues to surge. He downplayed the risk of infection in children and insisted there is no cause for alarm. “The public should not worry. The government is in control. My ministry, the Ministry of Interior and that of Health are working together to ensure that the very best is given to children,” Magoha said. Earlier, Basic Education PS Belio Kipsang had told the National Assembly Committee on Education that 33 teachers and 17 students and four non-teaching staff in 35 schools had tested positive for Covid-19. KCPE and KCSE exams On national examinations, Magoha said there are no changes, for now. "We will let you know if anything changes but as of now, the plan to conduct exams remains," Magoha said. The KCPE exams are set to take place in March, while the KCSE exams are slated between April and May 2021. Magoha urged parents to pay school fees. “I know there are those who were retrenched and others who lost families but there are also a few who are able to top up the fee they paid. I am appealing to them to support schools,” Magoha said.  Edited by A.N