Former Tahidi High actor Dennis Mugo, popularly known as OJ, says he sank into depression after he discovered he had squandered all the money he made from the show by drinking alcohol. Speaking in an episode of his YouTube channel, OJ explained that he is a perfect example of the Swahili proverb of 'Asiyefunzwa na mamaye hufunzwa na dunia.' Raised by a strict single mother, OJ says he got the best as a child, went to a boarding school in class four but became independent at form four. "Along the way, I learnt alcoholism and smoking. I started smoking in Form 2 and in Form 3, I started taking alcohol. From chang'aa to anything I would get along," he said. "The habit has affected me years down the line. I'm turning 35 years but I have been hiding from the mess." OJ said he would get well-paying hosting jobs and advertisements from big brands that paid him well. "I made my first million, but what did I do with it? Nothing," he said. "Do you ever look at your friends and get jealous of their growth, especially when you look at where you are and how focused they were back then?" OJ says he made his first million before some of his friends like Abel Mutua, but he says since they stuck to their dreams, they have achieved a lot while he is still struggling. "I didn't invest well because of bad habits, which till today hit me," he said. "I got to a point I fell into depression. I could cover it with alcohol, humour and cigarettes. "The celebrity mentality got into my head. I was a big name and the fame left as fast as it came. "After the show ended, I started to wonder why the people who were calling me for jobs were not looking for me anymore," he said. He admitted that he got into a downward spiral due to alcoholism that made him burn through his money. "I got a son during that time but later separated with my wife due to my alcohol problem," he said. He currently works for the Embu government in the Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports, specifically in the Talent Academy. Edited by T Jalio