Deputy President William Ruto met with the leadership of the National Council of Elders, headed by its patron Captain Kung’u Muigai on Tuesday at his Karen residence home. The leaders were also joined by chairman Phares Rutere and the Nationhood Sector Principal Administrative Secretary Michael Ndung’u. Muigai is President Uhuru Kenyatta's cousin. Recently, Muigai hit out at a section of Kikuyu elders who attended a meeting at Raila Odinga’s home in Bondo. He cautioned against supporting any political grouping. In early October, Muigai said elders should focus on uniting various political groupings to ensure a united country. “As elders, we don’t engage in petty politics. Our position is that all politicians are our children. If you are a father, and you find your two boys fighting, will you pick on one and continue whipping?” he asked. During the meeting in Karen on Tuesday, Ruto said elders must take the lead to preach unity and end ethnicity in the country. “They must mentor the youth to be responsible leaders, moderate our politics to be less confrontational but more issue-based and encourage the establishment of national rather than tribal political parties,” Ruto said. The DP said if elders are involved, Kenyans stand to have meaningful development that will make Kenya more peaceful. His statement comes a day after Uhuru urged Kenyans to shun tribalism. During the unveiling of the BBI report at the Bomas of Kenya on Monday, Uhuru said all Kenyans have been guilty of being tribal. “The fact of the matter is we are a tribal society and we want to run from that. Let us not cheat one another. I will also admit that I have been part and parcel of the negative politics. “That is why we must address the issue of inclusivity so that every single community will feel they are part and parcel of this country,” the President said. Uhuru explained the genesis of BBI and how his coming together with Raila was inspired by a need to ensure future generations enjoyed a stable, united and prosperous Kenya.