You're are too old to be in politics, let hustlers take over, former Machakos Senator Johnston Muthama has told ODM leader Raila Odinga. “I supported Raila for over 10 years and he never got satisfied. Now it is time for him to go home and relax to pave way young hustlers,” he said. Muthama spoke on Thursday in Msambweni. He said Raila has selfish agenda and only cares about power. Muthama said Raila and the current administration are plotting to create more political seats for themselves through the Building Bridges Initiative. He said BBI is meant to serve specific people in government and urged residents to reject it. The team Tangatanga leader said BBI won’t address the problems facing ordinary people. He criticised Raila for attacking Deputy President William Ruto for giving out wheelbarrows to youth and helping boda bodas. Muthama said the ODM leader should be ashamed for bickering while the DP works to empower fellow hustlers. “When Ruto is trying to help common citizens, the ‘riddle man’ says it is theft. The question is, what is he doing to assist the locals?” he said. Muthama said team hustlers is about helping one another. Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa said ODM is a sinking vessel and is not to be trusted. “Be warned, I have made holes on MV ODM, water is getting in, unfortunately, the captain has no expertise and they are soon going to drown,” he said. Lunga-Lunga MP Khatib Mwashetani said it was time for people to free themselves from the chains of colonialism. He said they are tired of threats in Jubilee Party. Mwashetani said their hands are tied and they cannot fight for the rights of citizens effectively. “There is a bad game going on in Parliament. We are forced to remain silent because if you speak, you will get yourself in the wrong side of the law,” he said. Former Kakamega senator Boni Khalwale, Mombasa Hassan Omar, Garissa nominated Senator Falhadha Iman and Kilifi Senator Christine Zawadi, among others, were present. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya