Standard eight and Grade Four pupil will today begin nationwide exams, to help identify the learning gaps created by the seven-month closure of schools. The rest of the classes will also be assessed upon their return to schools. Mercy Karogo, the Kenya National Examination Council chief executive, on Tuesday told the Star that the assessment is not same as the routine exams administered in schools. She explained that the test will not be used to grade learners but act as a fact finding tool on learning losses they might have developed during the closure. “The assessment will be school-based and we have instructed teachers to be flexible in issuing, and administering them,” Karogo said. The council last week issued a schedule on how the assessment will be conducted. Standard Eight assessments will be done in three days and will be assessed in all KCPE subjects. They will begin with mathematics, English language and composition on the first day. Science, Kiswahili language and Insha will be on the second day and social studies and religious studies on the third day. Grade Four assessment will be conducted for four days with English learning, speaking and reading set for day one. On day two, the learners will be assessed in English reading comprehension, grammar and writing for one hour and 20 minutes, while those with special needs will be tested for one hour and 50 minutes. They will also be assessed on environmental activities, science and technology. On day three, the pupils will be tested on Kiswahili, listening, speaking and reading aloud, they will also be assessed in Kiswahili grammar and writing on the fourth day. The assessments will act as a blueprint to improve learning outcomes. It will also help identify strengths and weaknesses in learner retention of specific subject content. During the assessment, schools will be required to maintain a high level of discipline in enforcing the coronavirus protocols and safety guidelines. Headteachers, who will be responsible for fetching the documents and printing them, will also be required to ensure security and safety of the printed papers and store them in a lockable cabinet. As is the case during end-of-term assessments, teachers must ensure there is no cheating in the classrooms. Teachers will be required to confirm the attendance of learners, account for any absentees and brief them on the conduct of the assessment.