The National Assembly on Tuesday accepted the advisory by Chief Justice David Maraga asking President Uhuru Kenyatta to dissolve the August House for not meeting the two-thirds gender rule. However, the advisory will not be acted upon and will only be a record. Leader of Majority Amos Kimunya said the advisory will be kept as 'part of the journals of the House." Last month, Justice Weldon Korir stopped the implementation of Maraga's advisory on dissolution of Parliament. This was after two petitioners challenged Maraga’s advisory to dissolve Parliament for failing to meet the thirds gender rule. “In the circumstances of this case, I therefore find the petitioners notice of motion dated September 23 merited. I allow it in terms of prayer so that a conservatory order issued for the preservation of the status quo of the Advice of the Chief Justice dated September 21 to the president pending interparteis hearing and determination of the petition,” Korir ruled. Petitioners Leina Konchella and Abdul Munasar wanted the High Court to stay the advisory, saying it is subject to judicial review as an administrative act. The petitioners, through lawyer Muturi Mwangi, avered that the written advice to President Uhuru Kenyatta is not judicial. They further argued that there were no proceedings before the decision was reached. “The Chief Justice has mischievously attempted to shield his act by fashioning the advisory as a judicial decision while no such proceedings can competently exist in the Kenyan court system,” according to the petitioners. Leina and Abdul further reasoned that Maraga’s action is beyond his authority to the extent that it purports to be grounded on Parliament's failure to enact two-thirds gender law. “No such timelines are specified under Article 261 of the Constitution. The argument here is that Article 100 which has timelines does not demand the two-thirds gender quota.” The duo said the two-thirds gender rule can only be implemented through extensive amendments to the Constitution.