In 2020, we have experienced massive global changes. We have gone through extreme changes at every level – political, economic, emotional, social, cultural, etc. It was hard to imagine that international travel would stop for a period. Who would have thought that sectors like tourism would shut down completely? We did not see a global pandemic coming at this scale. Yet here we are. What do we do? The global changes have been crazy this year. However, we must find ways to get back up, rebuild our lives, and move on. But how? First, we must acknowledge the changes and not live in denial. It has happened and still happening. Acknowledge the reality that is before you. Once you have acknowledged and accepted that we live in crazy times, then it is time to understand what the change means to you because it resonates differently with people. What it means to me might not be what it means to you. To successfully navigate change, you must find out what it means to you because it affects people differently. Typically, people feel a measure of discomfort when change (good or bad) occurs. The idea of the familiar becoming unfamiliar can be stressful and confusing. Therefore, it helps to understand the stress levels that change evokes in you. What are your fears and concerns about the changes that you face? What level of discomfort do you feel due to the change that you experience? Fear is one reason that people resist change. They believe that the change would make them lose control. The challenge is that often, people do not take the time to understand their fears; hence, they lack the clarity required to address them. Change is managed better when the fear factor is understood. Now that you have addressed your fears, you must review your thinking. So, what new thinking is required for you to successfully navigate the change? The thoughts that worked for you previously may not work for you now. Change is a new terrain that requires new thinking. A fresh perspective empowers you to thrive in changing times. Acquiring a new perspective means that you are evolving and, therefore, adapting to change. Every season of change requires a new you. When you embrace new thinking, the new you begin to emerge. The evolving you is the one who would thrive in change. Old thinking seldom works in times of massive changes. On that note, keep learning, growing, evolving, and winning in this season. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com