A section of Jubilee leaders allied to the Deputy President William Ruto has said they will not allow the party to be run as a private entity for selfish gains. They said they would continue meeting and engaging at the outfit’s offices in Pangani to further the party’s agenda of transforming and uniting the country. Their remarks came hours after party secretary-general Raphael Tuju banned the DP from accessing the party headquarters. Ruto's allies made their comments on Friday in Nakuru during the funeral service of Esther Toyoi Kipkuna, the mother to the National Olympic Committee of Kenya President Paul Tergat, where Ruto was present. Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui, Stanley Kiptis (Baringo), senator Susan Kihika (Nakuru), Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet), MPs Lizah Chelule (Woman Rep, Nakuru), Nixon Korir (Lang’ata) and Johana Ng'eno (Emurua Dikirr) are among those who were present. Murkomen said that the party members are in charge of Jubilee and that Tuju should focus on his personal challenges rather than engaging in a battle that "he will obviously lose'. “We would keep running it and saying the truth until Kenya is on a progressive lane…you cannot tell us that we cannot meet in that office. It is our money that is funding it. It is also our votes that is keeping you where you are,” Murkomen said. The Elgeyo Marakwet senator asked Tuju to stop engaging in deceit and hypocrisy and refocus on the ideals that gave birth to Jubilee. They also asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to tame the tongues of some of the politicians allied to him, whom they said risked breaking the country’s social fabric. “You cannot keep saying you are uniting the country when some proxies are being used to fight your deputy. Put your Jubilee house in order as part of your journey to uniting the country,” he added. Kihika called on Tuju to resign and make his membership of the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) official. “We are past the cat and mouse games. We want a conversation about the economic empowerment of the people,” Kihika said. Ng’eno argued that the country needed not to engage in another Huduma Namba registration, noting that it was a scam. “It is a waste of taxpayers' resources. Let those resources be channeled to the immediate needs of the people especially at this time when we are facing tough times dues to the Covid-19 pandemic.” Murkomen said the renewed call for another Huduma Namba registration was aimed at stealing taxpayers’ money. However, last week, the Interior ministry dismissed the allegations. Ruto, avoided commenting on the matter, saying that he was committed to working with the president in fulfilling the pre-election promises made to the people in 2017. “We are changing this country’s conversation to one that is focused on the empowerment of the people rather than the creation of positions for the mighty,” Ruto said.