Kenya will be making another milestone in athletics as the refurbished Nyayo Stadium hosts the World Athletics Continental Tour, the Kip Keino Classic on Saturday. The Kip Keino Classic, meant to celebrate the legendary Kipchoge Keino, will be the third World Athletics event on Kenyan soil after the 2007 World Cross Country held in Mombasa and the 2017 World Under 18 Championships at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Athletics Kenya President Jack Tuwei is optimistic that the Kip Keino Classic will be successful following the high-quality preparations that has been put into it. He echoed the words of Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed that a successful event on Saturday will put the country in a better position as they seek to host the 2025 World Athletics Championships. “We successfully hosted world cross country in 2007 in Mombasa and the World Under 18 Championships in 2017 and a successful Kip Keino Classic can help in our quest to host the World Championships in 2025," said Tuwei. He added that recent staging of other sporting events including the world-class Safari sevens and tennis tournaments has shown that Kenya can host any sporting event successfully. Tuwei said Kenyans love for sports and as a country, it has what it takes to host such world sporting show. He said due to the coronavirus containment measures, many fans will not be able to attend even though he knows they have the will to head to Nyayo and watch their fellow countrymen compete. “We are ready for the Kip Keino Classic. We have a good team which is ready to shake some feathers in the last of the Continental Tour series. I know athletes have had little time in training but they have promised  they will put on a great show, regardless,” said Twuei. He added that the event only takes two hours but because there are many Kenyan runners, they have put them in three categories following a successful request to the World Athletics. “We were given a chance to host national events, meant for Kenyan athletes, and then the main event,” said Tuwei. “We have also trained our officials to ensure that we get it right. All of them have not been working since coronavirus hit the world and they needed refresher courses for the world show.” The CS opened up some sports disciplines with adherence to Ministry of Health regulations and Tuwei said they will follow the same guidelines to ensure a safe event on Saturday. “We shall do registration for all athletes as well as fans who will attend the event. We shall corporate with the government regulations," said Tuwei, adding that athletics events have been successful world over despite the virus threats and doesn't understand why the Kenya edition cannot follow suit. "World Athletics had 10 series but this is the only one in Africa. The others have been successful and the world has given us that opportunity to show we can do it too,” said Tuwei. Kipchoge’s son Martin Keino is a happy man that the world will be converging at Nyayo to celebrate his father, who has done a lot for Kenyan sports, both as an athlete and administrator dating back to the 1960s. The young Keino, who is also into sports administration after years on the track, said: “It is good for him to be celebrated. His recognition is important in the sporting world. The man has done a lot for Kenyan sport. “He set the pace for Kenyan athletics and I believe the government and the federation have done well to remember his achievements and through his success in sports, many will learn and work better for future too,” he added. He observed that the event is a milestone for not only athletics but Kenyan sports in general. “It is a big piece of history in athletics, not just for the country but for the family too and the rest of us should learn from him to do what is good for the world,” said Keino. With the World Under 20 coming up in 2021, junior coach Robert Ngirisei said the Kip Keino Classic will set the country back into competition mood following a lengthy break occasioned by the coronavirus pandemic. “This is the first global event to be staged in our country since the virus broke and which serves as a great motivation to our athletes, including the junior runners as we head for the Olympic Games, World Championships, African Championships and the U20 Championships next year," said Ngisirei. “The championship will give junior athletes a chance to compete with big names from across the world.” He also urged athletes, to give good results on their backyard after shining across the world in many races. “Kenya is a powerhouse in athletics and since the race is being held at home, we have no option but to show the world that Kenyan athletes can perform at home, just like they do abroad,” observed Ngisirei. He regretted that fans will miss out due to the Covid-19 containment measures but observed that it can also make a good family engagement for parents and their kids to assemble in their living rooms and cheer fellow Kenyans since the event will be broadcast on television. He said he has been visiting World U20 probables and observed that the fact that the Kip Keino Classic is just about has given them hope that their event will happen too. “As the WU20 head coach, I have been monitoring these athletes and I know what they are feeling right now. Athletes rom Mount Elgon, Elgeyo Marakwet, Kisii, Makueni, Machakos, Nyahururu, Embu, Kericho among other areas are eager to see action on the track,” he said. Another veteran coach Boniface Tiren, said he is specifically looking forward to the 5,000m event, where he expects and electrifying race. “I am seriously expecting a good showdown. We shall see the most spectacular show in recent times. With athletes coming from their hideouts due to the coronavirus, they will want to outdo each other, hence offer quality completion,” said Tiren. His North Rift Athletics Kenya region will be represented by the likes of Africa 5,000m silver medalist and 2019 World Championships finalist Jacob Krop, national champion Robert Kiprop, junior runner Felix Korir, Michael Kibet and Bravin Kogei. The region also consists of world 10km record holder Rhonex Kipruto who will be in action in the 10,000m race.