Deputy President William Ruto on Monday hosted church leaders from Nyanza at his Sugoi home as he quoted a verse about friendship and unity. “We must go out of our way to build true bridges of friendship and unity. We must eliminate all social and economic barriers that divide us and always strive to serve all Kenyans without any form of discrimination,” he said. Ruto worshipped with a host of religious leaders from Nyanza led by Most Rev. Eng. Calleb Olali and the Supreme Archbishop Nomiya Faith Churches. Ruto further said that he was inspired by a verse in the Bible. He quoted Amos 3:3. The verse says that “Do two walk together unless they have agreed to do so?” The deputy president has had a bumpy ride with President Uhuru Kenyatta since the handshake that happened two years ago. And if the verse is anything to go by, it might as well be speaking about the relationship between him and the president The DP's relentless scouring for 2022 support has put him on a collision course with the President, who says early campaigns disrupt his development agenda. UhuRuto's relationship is now characterised by hard-hitting remarks targeted at each other. The one-time unified Jubilee is in a shambles and the Cabinet deeply divided. Over the weekend, Uhuru made a rare joint public appearance with his deputy, where he asked for forgiveness for wrongs he may have committed. The President chose the occasion of the national prayer breakfast at State House, Nairobi, Uhuru asked those he had wronged to forgive him, while assuring those who had wronged him that he had forgiven them. Ruto also asked leaders to be tolerant of each other as he sought for forgiveness on behalf of the government from the church over the spots of interruptions of their services witnessed in Murang’a, Kakamega and Nyamira counties. “We should never witness such in a country that professes to be God-fearing. Teargas should never be near a church or worshippers,” he said. Uhuru is caught up in accusations of tearing up a political pact to support Ruto for president in 2022. The DP’s allies have accused him of watching from the sidelines as his allies light political fires in the run-up to the elections. Whether the seeking of forgiveness will see the two becoming friends again waits to be seen.