Kenyan youths should be wary of false prophets who will emerge to divide the people for their own selfish gain, Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir has said. Nassir said Sunday’s violence at the AIPCA Church in Kenol ahead of Deputy President William Ruto’s visit to Murang'a was the work of enemies of the people. “In Murang’a, we lost two lives because of political differences,” Nassir said. He spoke at the Valley of Blessing Centre in Junda, where he met youths and women in Kisauni. Two people died in the violence that pitted pro-Tangatanga youths against pro-Kieleweke youths. Inspector General of Police Hilary Mutyambai has summoned Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro and his Kandara counterpart Alice Wahome to appear before the DCI for questioning. On Monday, Nyoro accused Mutyambai of playing politics with the matter, saying he had warned police of possible violence on Friday, two days earlier. “We knew there was a plan to cause chaos. I sent a message of the same to our county commissioner. I have the message in my phone,” Nyoro said. Nassir castigated politicians with loose tongues, saying they are taking the country dangerously close to chaos. “The tongue has no bone. People speak carelessly. The effect is what we saw in Murang’a,” Nassir said. The MP, however, said the youth in the country can play a big role in averting such chaos if they can shun divisive politicians. He said politicians should not be allowed to divide people who have been coexisting peacefully for years. “When they come, welcome them. Then interrogate them and weigh how they might fair for the next five years,” he said. The legislator said leaders’ role in the society is to ensure development of the people they represent. He said MPs should speak with one voice against anyone who perpetrates violence. “Politicians will come and ask why the food is not edible yet they are the ones who put too much pepper in it,” he said Nassir. The MP said leadership comes from God and violence will not win one a seat. He said the handshake between President Uhuru and ODM chief Raila Odinga was meant to avert such violence. “Although the Canaan journey was disrupted, there is a way to reach there peacefully,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori