Del Monte Kenya has partnered with the United Nations to empower over 10,000 women in reproductive health in Murang’a and Kiambu counties by the year 2024. The company will provide reproductive health information and family planning services, cancer awareness, menstrual health and sexually transmitted diseases. Training and information on reproductive health will be disseminated through newsletters, pamphlets and fliers. The company will also expand its on-site health services and provide reproductive health services and family planning. Vicky Mutungwa, the company’s quality control manager, said women make up 45 per cent of its 6,500 employees. “We strive to offer them fair wages, a safe workplace and access to quality reproductive healthcare while providing them with opportunities for growth,” she said. Mutungwa said the workers enable the company to provide wholesome, safe and fresh products and it is the company’s responsibility to ensure their well-being. Mutungwa was speaking during a virtual plenary session of the UN General Assembly aimed at driving corporate action on gender equality and women’s health on Monday. “We are committed to supporting and empowering women at the workplace and the surrounding community, and engaging male employees on gender equality as a part of sustaining women health and empowerment’s impact,” she noted. Robyn Russell, the director of programmes and innovation at the United Nations Foundation’s Universal Access Project, appealed to companies employing millions of women in their global supply chains to invest in the health and empowerment of their workforce. Del Monte is one of the five global companies that have stepped up to increase access to critical health services and information to women workers. The others are Ethiopian Horticulture Producers Exporters Association (EHPEA), Farida Group, Mas Holdings and PVH Corp, covering Kenya, India, Sri-lanka, Bangladesh and Ethiopia. The initiative will help over 585,000 women attain their unmet needs for essential healthcare which has been worsened by the Covid-19. EHPEA’s executive director Tewodros Zewdie said the membership organisation with over 126 horticultural producers committed to expand its workforce training programme to an additional 50-member producers, empowering over 30,000 women. Edited by A.N