Over 290 health workers have tested positive over the last two weeks, Council of Governor's chair Wycliffe Oparanya has said. In a statement on Thursday, Oparanya said the recent high cases of coronavirus in the country are worrying, hence the need to continue observing the set guidelines. “Out of the tests carried out across the Counties, 298 healthcare workers have tested positive and are receiving treatment,” Oparanya said. He said 34 counties have active quarantine facilities, and that there are 246 patients in these facilities. 134 people who were confined in public quarantine facilities have been released, and 16 counties have not reported suspected cases in quarantine facilities in the last one week. The Kakamega governor added that 43 counties have trained and sensitised 4,860 healthcare workers. “Additionally, 8,602 community health volunteers have been trained and sensitised on the management and response of Covid-19. Cumulatively, 113,070 healthcare workers and 94,231 community health volunteers have been trained and sensitized across the 47 County Governments.” CoG chair added that there are 1,056 patients who are being managed under home-based isolation care. “A total of 6,665 people initially under home-based care in the last two and a half weeks have fully recovered. County Governments have continued to support patients under home-based care.” Regarding the disbursement of the County Equitable Share, Oparanya said that the governments have only received disbursements for the month of July and August amounting to Sh52.2 billion. “We call upon the National Treasury to henceforth effect disbursements of the County Equitable share of revenue without undue delay as required by both the constitution and the PFM Act.” The council also noted that there has been laxity in the implementation of the Covid-19 regulations among the matatu operators and users. “We urge the Ministry of Transport and County Governments to ensure strict adherence to the regulations in the transport sector.” The government has also been asked to urgently address the issue of the stranded truck drivers at the Malaba and Busia border points for lack of Covid-19 testing occasioned by lack of reagents.