Recoveries from Covid-19 in the country have hit 26,659 after 233 more patients recovered from the virus on Sunday. Two hundred and nineteen of the recovered patients were under home-based care, with the remaining 14 having been discharged from hospitals. In a statement, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe confirmed 243 new cases after 4,385 samples were tested in 24 hours. The virus caseload in the country now stands at 39,427 from cumulative tests of 563,483 since March. The youngest patient was a four-month-old infant, with the oldest aged 80. “From the cases, all are Kenyans except six and 179 are males and 64 females,” the CS said. “Sadly, three patients have succumbed to the disease, bringing the fatality to 731. Our condolences to the families and friends of those who have lost their loved ones.” In terms of county-based distributions, Nairobi recorded the highest number with 70 new cases. Of these, 28 are from Starehe, 12 from Lang’ata, six from Kasarani, five each from Kibra and Westlands, three from Embakasi West and two each from Dagoretti North and Kamukunji. Dagoretti South, Embakasi East, Embakasi North, Embakasi South, Makadara, Roysambu and Ruaraka had one each. Nakuru recorded the second-highest cases at 44 — 20 from Naivasha, 12 from Nakuru East, seven from Nakuru West, four from Rongai and one from Nakuru North. Trans Nzoia had 30 cases — 29 from Saboti and one from Kiminini. Other counties that recorded new infection include Kisumu and Mombasa with 15 each, Narok 13, Kiambu 11, Kericho 10, Kakamega seven, Machakos six and Isiolo four. Kajiado, Meru, Bungoma and Nandi recorded three cases each, Uasin Gishu two while Bomet, Kirinyaga, Laikipia and Kilifi had one each. “In Kisumu, the 15 cases are from Kisumu Central 11, Kisumu East and Nyando one case each. In Mombasa, the 15 cases are from Jomvu 11 and Mvita four,” Kagwe said. Seven of the cases from Narok are from Narok North, four from Trans Mara and one each from Narok East and Narok South. In Kiambu, six cases came from Thika, four from Ruiru and one from Kikuyu. All the cases in Kericho were from Ainamoi. Kakamega’s cases came from Lurambi four, Shinyalu two and Lugari one. In Machakos, three of the new cases came from Machakos town, two from Kathiani and one from Athi River. All the four cases in Isiolo were from Isiolo town, while in Kajiado two were from Kajiado North and one from  Kajiado East. “The three cases in Meru are all from Imenti North, the three cases from Bungoma are all from Kimilili, Sirisia and Webuye East and the three from Nandi are from Chesumei two and Mosop one,” Kagwe said. “Th cases in Uasin Gishu are from Moibem and Turbo one case each while the two cases in Bomet are all from Bomet Central.” The cases in Kirinyaga, Laikipia and Kilifi are from Kirinyaga Central, Laikipia East and Malindi respectively.