As a Co-operative Bank of Kenya point guard, Kennedy Ondiek was renowned for his sharp-shooting skills that were pivotal in the side's Kenya Basketball Federation Premier League titles between 1994-97. Twenty-three years later, his hawk-eyes has helped him unearth young basketball gems in Embakasi, Nairobi. His nose for promising talent took him from Kibra in 2001 to the East side of Nairobi where he established Embakasi Youth Basketball — also known as Emyba. Dominic Obunaka, Vincent Onsongo and Brian Obimbo are some of the big names  that have emerged from Ondiek's wings and catapulted to higher heights. Obunaka is currently in Tennessee in the United States pursuing higher studies and playing basketball whereas Onsongo and Obimbo ply their trade for Equity Bank in the top-tier league. "I met Obunaka on his way from church with a Bible in hand. He was by then a footballer but I managed to convince him to change to basketball. He worked his way up both on the courts and in class and I feel happy that God opened doors for him," Ondiek, 56, says. Ondiek's hard work on EMYBA resulted in a well-polished team that participated in the Nairobi Basketball Association (NBA) provincial league. "Our performance in the league that year was exceptional and everyone who watched our matches can attest to that. We were all happy at our progress," he says. Emyba's vision As he exits his house at 6 a.m. every morning, the only thing on his mind is to  forge the next crop of basketball superstars to follow in the footsteps of Obunaka and Co. Approximately 80 boys and girls stream into the Embakasi Social Hall  — or Pride Centre Court on certain days — for training sessions. These training sessions have become increasingly important as the Coronavirus pandemic keeps many youngsters at home and at risk of social vices, including unwanted pregnancies, crime and drug use. The program — covering Nyayo Embakasi, Tassia, Fedha, Pipeline, Imara, Kobil, Utawala, Soweto, Baraka and Donholm — runs from 7 am to 11.30 am every day. “Before I started this program, I had seen the kind of talent that was in this area. I thought I should introduce them to sports and basketball was the obvious choice. Not many understood basketball when they reported, but I knew with time they would be able to catch up,” Ondiek says. The youngsters are organised into smaller groups and trained on the basics of the game including passing, dribbling and shooting. “There is no turning back.  My plans is to continue training these kids during school holidays and weekends even if schools are reopened,” He said. Challenges abound The program has however been in the headwinds at certain times especially during the Coronavirus period. Ondiek's main headache is finding enough basketball courts to comfortably accommodate the burgeoning number of prospects. “Currently, we are using only one court  and this has proved problematic. I am trying to follow up with the local leadership to help build more playing fields in the area. The community will benefit if many courts are put up,” he says. Another challenge that confronts Ondiek is accessing the parents of these youngsters to discuss the progress of their children. It is important for parents to show interest in what their children are doing. They should get involved, contribute and follow their success. I’ve been to the USA twice and I can tell you that parents out there show massive interests in what their kids are doing," Ondiek says. Nonetheless, his passion for the youth — which began during his playing days at Co-op Bank — fuels his determination to surmount this obstacle. "Talent can open up doors to those with potential. Look at  Obunaka; his exploits were noted by Upper Hill School principal Peter Orero under whom he guided the school to national and regional honours," Ondiek says. Basketballer by accident Born in 1964 in Nairobi's Gorofani Estate, Ondiek attended Simbi, Ongalo and Alego primary schools. He returned to the city in 1981 after the passing on of his mother, Beldina Agalo, a year earlier. Ondiek would not have been a basketballer had it not been for constant prodding and coercion from basketball coaches at St Teresa's High School, Nairobi. At the 'Saints', there was an unwritten rule that every student spanning 6 feet should join the school's basketball team - a rule that Ondiek and a close friend Joseph Okeyo refused to comply with. "Although I did love football and wanted to pursue that sport, the pressure to play basketball from the coach and the head of the school was too much. I succumbed in form Two and never looked back since," he recalls. The school coach and mentor and was Jesudason Ernest who was assisted by Joseph “Big Joe” Odhiambo and their combination brought honours to the school. Ondiek and St Teresa won three national school titles in 1983-85 during which he was the captain. St Teresa produced some popular players like  Isaac “Iceman” Omole, Vincent Okutoyi, Polycarp Lusinde, Simon Muthee, Denis Orina, Tito Odumbe, Robert Omolle, Joseph Odhiambo and Joshua Okeyo Ondigo. Ondiek's next basketball sojourn was at Cardinal Otunga High School in 1986 where he became an integral player under legendary coach Ronny Owino. His stint at South Nyanza-based school team is memorable for the narrow 74-73 loss to St Patrick's Iten in the national school finals. "That was indeed a painful loss and we cried all the way to the dressing room because  we had beaten them in all the tournaments played earlier," he says. After completing high school, he signed for Kenya Airways basketball team that was readying itself for the 1987 Kecoso Games in Kisumu. He played for two years and even coached KQ's women basketball team at one point before moving on to Kimbo. Birth of Co-op In November 1989, Paul Tieng, an old friend then working for Co-operative Bank of Kenya, sent Ondiek a short message that gave birth to the Co-operative Bank basketball team. “It was like a dream come true, but having been able to deal with teams at school and club it was a responsibility that I cherished and we never disappointed," he says. Co-op represented Kenya  in many regional tournaments and reached the pinnacle by tackling Zamalek of Egypt in the Fiba Africa Club championship. Ondiek heaps praise on coach Osman Ali who made the bankers one of the best teams in the country, if not the region, by defining and empowering the roles of each player  in the team. Testimonies His selfless drive has not gone unnoticed by all and sundry many of who believe that his works is a template for youth development in sports. "Ondiek is a passionate coach who is extremely dedicated in nurturing and mentoring players. He is doing a good job in Embakasi. As a player he was one of the top three point shooters in Kenya. He is a legend," NBA chairman Ronny Owino testifies. Although retired,  Ondiek  continuously plays at the lower level to keep fit. 