Deputy President William Ruto could walk a political tightrope on Central Kenya overtures with the Luo-Kikuyu pact set to nosedive his fortunes in President Uhuru Kenyatta's turf. A political deal sealed by the Kikuyu and Luo elders on Saturday at opposition chief Raila Odinga's family home in Bondo is seen as a major blow to Ruto's efforts to court the President's community. The historic endorsement of Raila as Uhuru's successor by the Kikuyu elders complicates the DP's options in Central Kenya, votes that he desperately needs to turn tables against his rivals. A new report has revealed how counties went into overdrive hiring staff, spending nearly half of their budgets on salaries in the last financial year. The report by Controller of Budget Margaret Nyakang'o indicates counties nearly abandoned development. They channelled a huge portion of resources towards staff emoluments and other nonessentials such as travel and fuelling vehicles. The budget implementation review report for 2019-20 also shows counties' pending bills continued to soar as their own-source revenue continued to dwindle. Murang’a politicians on Sunday fought off a purported intelligence report placing them at the centre of planning the deadly chaos witnessed in Kenol Town, last week. According to an alleged intelligence report seen by the Star, politicians from both sides of the Jubilee faction in the county were involved in the planning and execution of the chaos. The report claims that Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege and former MCA Alex Mbote, who is now Governor Mwangi Wairia’s political advisor, planned the chaos. On the other hand, Tangatanga leaning MPs Alice Wahome (Kandara) and Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu) mobilised youths for a counter-attack. Senators want a probe into how millions of shillings meant to fight the destructive desert locusts were used by the Ministry of Agriculture. The lawmakers fear that some of the money was likely diverted into the pockets of unscrupulous officials. They said the country’s attention on the desert locusts menace shifted after the Covid-19 pandemic broke out in the country. The Law Society of Kenya President Nelson Havi has confirmed they have served the Speakers and Clerks of National Assembly and Senate with their notice of entry to Parliament Buildings on Monday afternoon. The 'Occupy Parliament' movement is the latest push by the LSK to force President Uhuru Kenyatta to dissolve the Parliament as advised by Chief Justice David Maraga on September 21 over its failure to implement the two-thirds gender rule. Also copied in the notice is the Inspector General of Police who the LSK wants to provide the necessary facilitation into Parliament Buildings on Monday at 2.30 pm.