The High Court on Thursday made an unusual ruling in which it awarded former Public Service PS Lillian Omollo one shilling for illegal dismissal. Justice Stephen Radido said due process was not observed in the process leading to Omollo’s removal from office. He said the dismissal was unconstitutional. “Omollo was not subjected to due process, nor was she given reasons for her removal from office. She was skillfully notified that her tenure had ended because a replacement had been appointed. She is, therefore, awarded a nominal Sh1 for the violation of her right to due process,” Radido ruled. Lawyers Danstan Omari and Shadrack Wambui said such an award is issued as a recognition that a party has a right in the case but has not demonstrated any damage suffered. “In civil cases, that’s how courts stop litigants from wasting the courts time. Courts would even award a litigant a penny or even Sh100,” Omari said. Omollo filed the case in June after receiving a letter from Public Service Cabinet Secretary Margaret Kobia indicating that her appointment had elapsed with the appointment of another person to her office. Omollo sought orders stopping the implementation of Kobia’s decision. She also sought restoration of all withheld salary allowances for the years she was under suspension and compensation for the unlawful revocation of her appointment. Also sought was service gratuity at the rate of 31 per cent of the basic remuneration package for the term served and restoration of all her withheld salary and allowances for the years under suspension. Omolo alleged breach of contract and complained that due process was not followed in the revocation of her appointment. In May 2018, Omollo stepped aside to allow investigations into alleged mishandling of funds in her ministry. She was on May 29, 2018, charged with corruption-related offences. She was subsequently suspended from office under the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act. The court, in that regard, said Omollo’s right to be presumed innocent was not violated when she was placed under suspension. But Omollo claimed that she could only be removed from office upon conviction and therefore the revocation of her reappointment before the conclusion of the criminal case was contrary to the law. The decision of the labour court comes five months after the High Court found the former PS to be a beneficiary of proceeds of crime. She was ordered to forfeit Sh33.6 million to the state. Justice Mumbi Ngugi said the funds held in bank accounts in the name of Omollo, her three daughters and entities run by her husband were proceeds of crime and therefore liable for forfeiture to the state. Ngugi said the family failed to show a legitimate source of the funds deposited in the 10 accounts. Omollo has since appealed against that ruling.  Edited by P.O