Persons living with disability in Kirinyaga county have vowed to join forces with other lobbies to challenge BBI reforms. This is after the group cited  lack of  inclusion of the recommendations they raised  during public views presentation in the final report. They not only complained of their views having been segregated but also  faulted the proposals made, saying they are meant to erode gains made under the 2010 Constitution. They say there are no suggested clauses advocating leadership positions for PWD. “There lacks inclusivity for people battling disability in those recommendations. For example, BBI suggests we scrap nomination seats whereas most of our members rely on those seats as the majority lack resources  to drive an aggressive campaign,"  Ngigi Nyaga, the secretary and spokesperson for the Kirinyaga County Disability Organisation, said. They also want their internal organisations to nominate candidates to Parliament as opposed to political parties doing it. That, they say, will help them develop a suitable list of worthy candidates to represent them. “These positions meant for our members have often been abused by political parties as their main aim is to advance their greedy agenda as opposed to representing our needs,” Nyaga said. They also accused Governor Anne Waiguru's administration of sidelining residents living with disability by denying them opportunities to serve in her government. They criticised her for not actualising the five per cent employment opportunities allocated for the disabled and not awarding them tenders through the 30 per cent affirmative action law. “These actions seem like our 122 groups in the county have been blacklisted. The county government  office mandated to look into our welfare has completely been paralysed through under-funding". "To add salt to injury, there is unwillingness in implementing  bills that have been drafted to look into our plight,” Nyaga said. They are now pleading with the governor to open her doors so that they can have an opportunity to address their concerns. Edited by EKibii