The Director of Public Prosecutions wants the Kenya Medical Practitioners Board to appoint a team of three doctors to examine the mental state of former Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu. Prosecution counsel Victor Mule and Riungu Gitonga told the court that once the examination is done, a report should be prepared and tabled before court. The DPP said Waititu has made it impossible for the Sh588 million graft case to proceed, hence he intends to cancel his bond terms. In July last year, Waititu was charged with Sh580 million irregular tender alongside his wife Susan Wangari and eight others. The case had been slated for hearing on Monday after magistrate Thomas Nzyoki said he will not entertain any adjournment. Magistrate Nzyoki issued a stern warning to Waititu that he should not come to court and generate medical opinion but for his lawyer to ensure he attends court for the hearing of his case. Waititu had in August told the court he tested positive for Covid-19. This prompted the court to adjourn the hearing of his case. Five days ago, the former county chief, through his lawyer, told the court he is still unwell. He produced documents from Super Care Medical Centre indicating he had been placed on bed rest for seven days. He was scheduled for a further review today. From the facility's record, it showed that Waititu complained of chest pains, headache and dizziness. On Monday, Waititu, through Swaka, still failed to show up. His lawyer produced another report saying his client had been admitted to Jumuia Hospital and was unable to attend court. He sought to have the matter adjourned and for it to proceed once his client has recovered. But the DPP  dismissed the medical reports questioning their authenticity. They said the authors of the documents cannot be relied on. "We do not know for sure whether or not the accused is unwell. Medical reports are supposed to be done and presented before the court. They should be prepared by independent doctors," Gitonga said. In a brief reply, Swaka said his client had not failed to come to court without a reason. He asked to be given a fair hearing. "My client has suffered from Covid-19. We hoped by today [Monday], as the defence, that he would be well. His personal doctor recommended an admission. Kindly accommodate my client," he said. The court will rule on the issue tomorrow.