The current dry weather experienced in most parts of Kenya will extend for another five days, the Meteorological department says. Met director Stella Aura said only areas around Lake Victoria and parts of the Rift Valley are likely to receive rains this weekend. “The Lake Victoria Basin, the highlands west of the Rift Valley, the central and south Rift Valley, the northwest, the highlands east of the Rift Valley and some parts of the northeast are likely to receive rainfall as the forecast period progresses,” she said. “The rest of the country is likely to remain dry,” she added in a forecast ending October 13. The department explained the continued dry weather is due to La Nina. "This phenomenon is associated with below average rainfall over Kenya," Aura said. A natural cooling of certain parts of the equatorial Pacific Ocean, La Nina sets in motion a series of changes to the world's weather that can last months, even years.  For East Africa, it is often associated with drought. Experts say the current phase of La Nina could last until April next year, meaning there is an elevated likelihood of below-average rainfall during the March-May 2021 season. Earlier this week, Aura said the short rains this year will come in November is most places and will be poor. "The October 2020 rainfall is expected to be poorly distributed, both in time and space," she said in a forecast for October. However, parts of the Highlands West of the Rift Valley, the Lake Victoria Basin, the Southern and Central Rift Valley and North-western Kenya are likely to experience near-average rainfall with a tendency to above-average. The rain has already begun in this region and will continue until December. It will fall any time this month in the central highlands, which include Nairobi, Meru, Embu, Nyeri, Murang’a, Kiambu, Tharaka Nithi, Kirinyaga and Nyandarua. "They  will experience occasional rainfall during the first and second week of October," Aura said. "The rainfall is expected to break for two weeks and resume during the first to second week of November." The onset in the southern parts (Narok, Kajiado) is likely to occur in the fourth week of October to first week of November. The southeastern lowlands (Taita Taveta, Machakos, Kitui, Makueni, and Tana River counties) are likely to realise the onset during the first to second week of November. Aura said at the Coastal Strip rains will come during the fourth week of October to first week of November. "Occasional rainfall is however expected during the second week of October," she said.  