It is clear that very many things were left out of the Building Bridges Initiative report. As the Church, we appeared before the BBI team in Nairobi and gave our views. Unfortunately, we have not seen anything from those views. First, we said for us to support BBI, the moratorium on the registration of churches should be lifted. We talked of separating religious organisations from the Society Act. We said if the government has to maintain the Kadhi's court, it should offer a similar option to Christians so we are on the same page. Otherwise, they are elevating one religion above the rest. The Kadhi's court is funded by the government. This is favouritism. They are favouring Muslims. They should also give churches their own courts to decide on matters marriage and so on. I support Deputy President William Ruto on what he said on the Prime Minister’s post. Think about it, if BBI is indeed about inclusivity. Let's say for instance that my party has won an election and I am the president and I have the leeway to choose who becomes the prime minister and the two deputies. I will still appoint people from my party and my tribesmen. How does that bring inclusivity? It was to be made very clear, probably, that President would not appoint a Prime Minister and the two deputies from his tribe so that he is tied by that. As it is, the President can still fill all those positions with his tribesmen. It doesn’t answer the question of inclusivity. What the BBI principals – President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga – should do now is to ensure there is consensus and we don’t have a contested referendum. They should send the report back to the task force. Every group that is raising concern in this report should submit its views to them. They can set aside, say, two months and listen to the dissenting views. That way, they will be uniting the country. Otherwise, I am afraid this report might divide us even more. The Church and Clergy Association of Kenya national chairman and Bethel Christian Pentecostal Church bishop spoke to the Star on the phone