Former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo has said Parliamentary committees had become dens of corruption with their members keen to sanctify graft. Kabogo, a one-time Juja MP, said MPs had formed the habit of using committees to enrich themselves and to absolve corrupt officials from wrongdoing. “People who had nothing have suddenly become multi-millionaires. What is it that they have learnt at 50 that they did not know when they were aged between 18 and 50?” he posed. Kabogo said he knows committees where public funds have changed hands, having served as a legislator before. “I was an MP. I was not white as snow but you will not find me with some of this dirt. There is so much rot in committees,” he said. He added that corruption thrives in committees as members question officials in the pretext of investigating graft cases. “Do you know how people implicated in graft panic when they are invited to these committees,” he posed. His remarks came hot on the heels of a move by the Senate to reject a report by a committee that investigated the controversial medical equipment scheme project. Million of shillings of taxpayers' money was lost in investigations that lasted for a year. The Isiolo Senator Fatuma Dullo-led committee held more than 100 sittings and even travelled to the Netherlands for five days investigating the project. Kabogo accused House committees of sanitising officials who have been involved in graft. “The problem is that when we get to elections, Kenyans will have forgotten and will vote for these people. How do you help this country with such people in office?” he added. Reacting to the comments, Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa wondered why Kabogo did not report graft cases in committees when he was a legislator. “With due respect, Kabogo should have reported these cases he is talking about. If he knew the rot and did not report, then he is an accomplice,” he said. He said being aware of a crime and then keeping quiet about it does not help. “The best thing he could have done to this country is to report the matter," Wamalwa said. “When you blame Parliament for not playing a role when it comes to matter corruption then you do not know the entire chain.” Amnesty International chair Renee Ngamau said the majority of Kenyans believe corruption and impunity are the greatest hindrances to the realisation of the Constitution. “What is this system that allows for scandal after scandal to come out?” she posed. Former Nairobi County Assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi said corruption had become a norm, a culture that Kenyans have inculcated and decided to talk about day and night. “The same politicians who are talking about corruption are the same businessmen involved in all these. We have just refused to deal with corruption,” added Elachi.