Nyanza hustler movement point man Eliud Owalo on Tuesday commissioned people to sell Deputy President William Ruto's agenda in Homa Bay. Those commissioned will identify coordinators at polling station, ward, constituency and county levels. The point man says he has done the same in the Luo-occupied Kisumu, Siaya and Migori counties. He and his Homa Bay counterpart Everest Okambo spoke to journalists after meeting the special team at a hotel. Owalo said members of the hustler movement are tasked are with campaigning for and popularising Ruto ahead of the 2022 general elections. Homa Bay has for a long time been a stronghold of ODM leader Raila Odinga. Raila once said ODM enjoys more than 90 per cent support in Homa Bay. The Tuesday commissioning of hustler movement followers is expected to heighten rivalry between Raila and Ruto in the county. Owalo hinted that the hustler movement may metamorphose into a political party come 2022. "Through this team the hustler movement is more ready to field candidates in Homa Bay and Nyanza region for all elective posts,” he said and urged those commissioned to be steadfast and ensure they deliver on their mandate. The point man said he understands the political dynamics of the Nyanza region. “Don’t be scared by our rivals. Just focus on the agenda of the movement because I know we’ll succeed,” Owalo said. Owalo said time had come for Nyanza residents to concentrate on politics which can bring food on their tables. “The interest of the common man is not politics of sharing elective posts by mighty politicians. We want transformative politics based on empowering the people,” he added. Okambo said Luo Nyanza owes Ruto political debt after he supported Raila in 2007. He argued that Ruto played a pivotal role in ensuring that Raila become the second Prime Minister in the country under the Mwai Kibaki-headed coalition government. “As a community and Homa Bay county, we owe Ruto a political debt after he supported our son in 2007. Let us reciprocate this time,” Okambo said. The commissioning was attended by more than 200 people from eight constituencies. The meeting urged Ruto to visit Homa Bay and sell his political agenda. The "commissioners" are Robert Ouma (Youth), Rose Auma and Sharif Aziz (women league), Duncan Ombati (organising secretary), Aketch Riako (elderly persons), Irene Akinyi (youth treasurer) and Alloys Nyabola (people with disability).  - mwaniki fm