The state on Thursday blocked Deputy President William Ruto from holding fundraisers in Nyamira. Police used tear gas to disperse residents and DP supporters who refused to leave the venues after the meetings were declared illegal. It has also emerged that President Uhuru Kenyatta had convened a meeting at State House, Nairobi, with a section of leaders from the Gusii region, to neutralise the DP's tour. Leaders from the region allied to the DP are said to have skipped the session at State House and opted to wait for Ruto. Ruto was to be hosted by MPs Vincent Kemosi (West Mugirango) and Shadrack Mose (Kitutu Masaba) during the two harambees for the boda boda and churches. However, police officers were mobilised from various police stations and sent to the two venues in West Mugirango and Kitutu Masaba where the DP was expected. Nasty confrontations ensued as boda boda operators who were trying to access Kebirigo and Miriri primary schools engaged police in running battles. At Kebirigo primary school, where the DP's advance security and media team had already camped, police ordered supporters to leave and asked the event organisers to pull down the tents. The officers had arrived in a convoy of over 10 lorries. Hell broke loose when boda boda operators who had parked their motorcycles strategically within the field refused to leave, forcing security officers to lob tear gas. As police engaged Ruto's supporters on the ground, a police chopper was hovering above. The DP was left with no choice but to call off the events. But he warned the police against using force on civilians. “After consultations with MPs Kemosi, Mose, Nyamoko, the boda boda sacco and the church leadership who had invited us, we have postponed the two functions in Nyamira county to Thursday next week. The disruptive dispersal by police of Kenyans engaged in economic empowerment is unnecessary,” Ruto tweeted. Kemosi, a key Ruto ally, said he was surprised with the turn of events on Thursday morning, saying he had spoken to the county commissioner Amos Omariba who had okayed the DP's meeting. "We had a chat with the county commissioner last week and agreed the meeting was going on as planned but unfortunately he has decided to disrupt the meeting," Kemosi claimed. North Mugirango MP Joash Nyamoko, another Ruto confidant, said  the DP's hustler movement initiative is unstoppable. “It is sad that our security officers are being used to run political errands. This is against the Constitution and retrogressive, we are clawing back the democratic gains we have achieved,” he protested. Mose said the meeting was meant to help the youth to be economically independent. "We are not cowards. Nothing will make us relent on empowering our young people," he said. This was the first time the police appeared to deploy their might and force on a meeting convened by the DP after the National Security Advisory Council of Wednesday banned political rallies. The NSAC chaired by Head of the Public Service Joseph Kinyua had indirectly accused Ruto of using his youth empowerment programme to incite the youth. Ironically, a Cabinet meeting attended by Ruto approved the NSAC's public order prescriptions and established a multi-agency team to monitor implementation. The team will be led by the Ministry of Interior under Fred Matiang'i. It comprises the National Intelligence Service, the AG, the IG, the two deputy IGs, ICT Authority, DCI, Ministry of ICT and Communications Authority. The terms of reference for the Multi-Agency Team on Public Order shall be to monitor, document and enforce compliance with the prescriptions and directives with respect to the conduct of all public meetings and processions.