The police service has urged its members to contribute towards settling a Sh5 million hospital bill for former police commissioner Duncan Wachira, who died on Wednesday. In a memo dated October 23, deputy Inspector General Edward Mbugua said, "The family has incurred a pending medical bill amounting to over Sh5 million, on top of funeral expenses." "The family has requested the National Police Service to assist to settle the bill. This is therefore to request you to convey the request to all officers under your command to voluntarily contribute." Mbugua said contributions should be made by October 30. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday sent a message of condolence to the family, relatives, and friends of Wachira. The President remembered the former police boss as a true servant of the nation and a patriot who was committed to the wellbeing of the country. “I have known Wachira as a man of great insight and unique qualities. During his time as the head of our police service, he pioneered reforms that improved the welfare of our men and women in uniform," Uhuru said. "Wachira is also remembered for his no-nonsense approach to the fight against crime especially in Nairobi." Uhuru said It is during his time as the top cop, that many organised criminal syndicates were dismantled. "Wachira's virtues of hard work and dedication to duty will remain an inspiration to many young Kenyans especially those serving the country in the disciplined forces," he said. The President prayed to God to give the family of the departed law enforcement officer the fortitude and comfort to bear the loss. Former President Mwai Kibaki said the late Wachira will be remembered for scuttling the notorious criminal enterprise of the 1990s that featured some of Kenya’s most infamous gangsters of all time. "His tenure as Police Chief witnessed some of the most deplorable events in Kenya’s history, including the audacious 1998 US Embassy bombing, yet Wachira, somehow, still managed to command his troops to inspire public confidence," Kibaki said. Wachira served as the commissioner of the police between 1996 and 1998 when many say he steered a number of reforms in the then Kenya police force.