The World Food Programme (WFP) has been awarded the 2020 Nobel Peace Prize. The Norwegian Nobel Committee said the the United Nations food agency was honoured for its efforts to combat hunger and for its contribution to bettering conditions for peace in conflict-affected areas. Via Twitter on Friday, the committee further said WFP acting as a driving force in efforts to prevent the use of hunger as a weapon of war and conflict earned it the much sought after award. The prize is worth 10 million Swedish crowns, or around Sh123 million, and will be presented in Oslo on December 10. In 2019, the United States President Donald Trump claimed he was overlooked for the prize which was awarded to Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed. The Norwegian Nobel Committee said Abiy was awarded for his "decisive initiative to resolve the border conflict with neighbouring Eritrea". However, Trump said, "I'm going to tell you about the Nobel Peace Prize, I'll tell you about that. I made a deal, I saved a country, and I just heard that the head of that country is now getting the Nobel Peace Prize for saving the country." He added, "I said: 'What, did I have something do with it?' Yeah, but you know, that's the way it is. As long as we know, that's all that matters... I saved a big war, I've saved a couple of them." In response, Prime Minister Abiy said he did not have "any clue about the criteria, how the Nobel Committee select an individual for the prize". So he said that if Trump wanted to complain he must go to the Nobel Committee in Oslo. "I'm not working for the prize, I am working for peace, a very critical thing for our region," he added. In September this year, a Norwegian lawmaker nominated Trump for the prestigious award for 2021 for helping broker a deal between Israel and the United Arab Emirates. Famous Nobel winners  include former US President Barack Obama who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2009, for "his extraordinary efforts to strengthen international diplomacy and co-operation between peoples". Other notable Nobel Peace Prize winners include former US President Jimmy Carter (2002), child education activist Malala Yousafzai (shared 2014), the European Union (2012), the United Nations and its then-general-secretary, Kofi Annan, (shared 2001) and Mother Teresa (1979).