Luanda subcounty residents have been left out of Vihiga Governor Wilber Ottichilo’s administration, area MP Christopher Omulele has said. He said despite the constituency having supported Ottichilo to win 2017 election, he has neglected the area. “We have five wards in Luanda. Emuhaya has got only three wards but they are heavily favoured because that’s where the governor comes from,” the MP said. “We the people of Luanda, where did we go wrong?” Omulele asked. “Is it because we don’t have anybody to represent us at the county level or what?” Governor Ottichilo did not pick calls for a comment. His personal assistant referred the Star to director communication Victor Wetende whose phone was off. The governor has nominated two CECs from his backyard, chief of staff James Otari, liaison officer David Andika and County Public Service Board chair Franklin Esipila. The CEC for Finance is from Luanda. He is facing the sack after allegedly failing to help the governor to respond to audit queries in the Senate. Omulele’s sentiments may threaten Ottichilo's political career as he plans to defend his seat in 2022. The MP angrily said Ottichilo had let Vihiga people down with his poor record of development. “Our brother Ottichilo, please benchmark with your colleague [Kakamega Governor Wycliffe] Oparanya and serve Vihiga people to the required standards,” Omulele said. The lawmaker said Oparanya had done great job in terms of developing the county. The MP was speaking at Ibubi Church of God where he had attended a service with  nominated ANC MP Godfrey Osotsi. “We were hosting parliamentary committees in Kakamega county. What Oparanya has done is great and he is the best governor countrywide,” Omulele said. “Governor Oparanya has set up about 20 modern markets across the county and is planning to increase them to 32,” the lawmaker said. The MP said said in the near future wards will be the centres of development once the Ward Bill is passed. The MP said the BBI proposes that 50 per cent of the national budget be channeled to counties to facilitate development. Edited by Henry Makori