More than 600 families embroiled in a land tussle with a businessman at Kwa Chocha in Malindi want the government to help them get title deeds. The squatters who live in plot 371 said they are tired of being harassed by police and living in fear of being evicted by the businessman who claims ownership of the over 30 acres. They said Abdalla Ahmed Issa, famously known as Kauni, claims to be the legal owner of the parcel, which they have lived on for many years. However, they admitted that they do not have valid documents and that the businessman claims he inherited the land from his family. Kauni, who is a resident of Malindi, said they reached an agreement with the squatters to take all open spaces but they resisted when he went with surveyors, causing chaos. Both the squatters and the businessman want the government to intervene and if possible buy the land to end the dispute and enable them to live in peace. Journalists toured the disputed land and found it largely occupied with modern structures having been built as hundreds of people bought land to settle. Raphael Mlewa Mkare, a resident of Kwa Chocha who was born on the controversial land, said the businessman is from a neighbouring village and used to do cashew nuts business previously. Mkare said they used to sell cashew nuts from the land to him and during that time there was no conflict but were surprised when he came to claim ownership of the plot. "To date, we have not received any help. We have been harassed, teargassed by police and many other things happened here but since we are locals at our land we vowed not to move out of the land until he kills us all," he said. Mkare said efforts to seek assistance from Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa and the Lands Chief Administrative Secretary Gideon Mung'aro have proved unsuccessful. ''We urge you our President, you have resolved other conflicts in different areas. Wherever you are if you are hearing us please we want your help. We do not want violence as we are peaceful people and want the conflict to be resolved,'' he said. Kauni on his part said whenever he attempts to go to the land he faces a lot of resistance and violence despite having sought support from all government agencies. ''The idea is to ensure that I remain with the ownership documents while the squatters stayed in the land and sell it,'' he said. His biggest worry is that some of the committee members of the squatters are allegedly selling the open parcels of land at between Sh700,000 and Sh1 million. He wants the government to intervene and help him take over his land even if it will mean the government purchasing it so as to ensure there is justice. ''I now fear for my life. I do not feel safe. I am now forced to spend nights in different houses to prevent anyone from predicting my whereabouts," he said. Edited by Henry Makori