National athletics team coach Julius Kirwa believes this weekend's Kip Keino Classic serves as an opportunity to evaluate Kenyan athletes' resolve against the coronavirus pandemic with Tokyo Olympics around the corner. Kirwa, said the World Athletics Continental Tour event offers a perfect chance for not only the athletes but also the coaches to understand the fitness levels of most of the country's runners who have not had an opportunity to compete abroad. "It is a good opportunity for us to evaluate how the athletes have adapted in the Covid-19 break. Right now it is difficult to identify the top contenders because they have been largely training individually," Kirwa said. Kirwa adds that the national team coaches will also use the athletics meet to lay the groundwork for next year's calendar after an extended period of sporting inactivity. "The pandemic did not only affect us but also the whole world. Because of this, we do not expect our athletes to be the only ones affected," he said. The coach also expressed optimism that all athletes who have registered for the race will be able to obtain Covid-19 compliance certificate as per the requirements. "Many of them have been affected financially by Covid-19 and may struggle to obtain the certificate. Thankfully, none of them has so far reported that they are having problems," Kirwa said. Kirwa said he is specifically looking at the 10,000m event, a race in which Kenyans have performed dismally for years. But unlike the core events which will include international athletes, the 10,000m race will be a national affair restricted to Kenyans and where world 10,000m record holder Rhonex Kipruto will hope to continue his meteoric rise. Kipruto — a world bronze medallist — will have to fend off competition from a host of fellow upcoming runners including Solomon Boit, the East Africa Secondary School Games 10,000m champion. Boit and Kipruto are familiar foes on the track having competed at the 2018 World U-20 Championships in Tampere, Finland during which the latter claimed gold while the former finished fourth after a shoulder-to-shoulder showdown. However, Boit is in boisterous form having clocked a personal best of 27:41.15 in the 10,000m at the Gouden Spike meeting in Leiden, Netherlands, less than a fortnight ago. In that race, Boit finished second behind Nicholas Kimeli — who has opted to grace the short distance 5000m race on Saturday. 2016 Olympics silver medalist Paul Tanui cannot be overlooked going by the experience he has in the 25-lap race. Tanui, who is also a world bronze medalist, clocked a personal best of 27:58.06 at last year's national trials for the World Championships in Doha, Qatar. The race will also have Peter Kiprotich, Wilson Too, Joseph Kimutai, Peter Kirui, Wilfred Kimitei, Kennedy Kipyego and Nathan Langat, among others.