More than 6,000 staff seconded to the Nairobi Metropolitan Services from City Hall and state departments are staring at prolonged salary delays after the National Treasury declined to release funds. In a letter to NMS director-general Mohamed Badi dated October 15, Treasury CS Ukur Yatani said he cannot release the money as there is no legal framework to back the move. Yatani said the County Allocation of Revenue Act and the disbursement schedule approved by the Senate require such money to be released to the Nairobi City County Government Revenue Fund Account and not to the NMS. “Section 4 (2) of CARA, 2020, provides that each county governments’ allocation shall be transferred to the respective county revenue fund, in accordance with a payment schedule approved by the Senate and published in the Kenya Gazette by the CS in accordance with Section 17 of PFM Act, 2012,” the letter reads. “The above legal provisions, therefore, imply that equitable share allocation due to Nairobi City County Government, including monies for personnel emoluments, shall be transferred to NCCG Revenue Fund Account.” Yatani was responding to a letter by Badi dated September 3 requesting the National Treasury to release funds for workers' pay. Currently, county doctors, who were absorbed by NMS after the transfer of the health function to the national government, are on strike over delayed pay, among other grievances. The NMS and Governor Mike Sonko's administration have been fighting over the management of staff payroll. The NMS says it had yet to get the payroll from the county government despite having the bulk of City Hall employees. On the other hand, City Hall maintains that it should be the custodian of the payroll given that county workers are employed by the Nairobi County Public Service Board and not the NMS or the Public Service Commission. In his letter, Yatani acknowledged a dispute that was declared by the county government in relation to budgeting, provision and oversight of NMS funds and secondment of staff to the entity. “Pursuant to Article 112 of the Deed of Transfer, ...parties shall, in the first instance, endeavour to resolve disputes governed by, or arising from the Deed of Transfer amicably through negotiations,” the CS said. “Consequently, parties to the Deed of Transfer of functions from NCCG to the national government entered into an interim settlement agreement as an expression of good faith and commitment to an amicable resolution of the matters in dispute among them budgeting, provision and oversight of NMS funds and secondment of staff to NMS.” Solicitor General Kennedy Ogeto is leading the committee arbitrating the two parties. Negotiations are ongoing. “Given the above legal provisions and the ongoing negotiations, the National Treasury awaits further guidance from the office of the Attorney General on the way forward on the above issues,” Yatani said.  Edited by P.O