US Vice President and the second lady have  tested negative for Covid-19, their spokesperson said on Friday, according to MSNBC. President Donald Trump and First Lady Melania tested positive. "We will begin our quarantine and recovery process immediately," Trump said in an early Friday tweet. Earlier, Trump said he and the US first lady were in quarantine after one of his closest aides tested positive for coronavirus. He said that both he and Melania Trump were now awaiting their own test results after Hope Hicks was infected. The 31-year-old adviser to the president is the closest aide to Mr Trump to test positive so far. She travelled with him on Air Force One to a TV debate in Ohio earlier this week. Ms Hicks was pictured getting off the presidential jet on Tuesday in Cleveland without a mask. She was in even closer proximity to him aboard the presidential helicopter Marine One on Wednesday when the president held a rally in Minnesota. Mr Trump's physician Sean Conley released a statement, saying the president and the first lady "are both well at this time, and they plan to remain at home within the White House during their convalescence". "Rest assured I expect the president to continue carrying out his duties without disruption while recovering, and I will keep you updated on any future developments," the statement said. It is not clear how Mr Trump's positive test will affect arrangements for the second presidential debate, which is scheduled for 15 October in Miami, Florida. Mr Trump has mostly spurned mask-wearing and has often been pictured not socially distanced with aides or others during official engagements. The coronavirus has infected more than 7.2 million Americans, killing more than 200,000 of them. Reacting to the news, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson wrote on Twitter: "My best wishes to President Trump and the First Lady. Hope they both have a speedy recovery from coronavirus." Other world leaders, including Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Israeli counterpart Benjamin Netanyahu, also sent messages of support to the US presidential couple.