Law Society of Kenya President Nelson Havi has said the two-thirds gender principle in the 2010 Constitution should not be altered through the BBI process. “We cannot make changes to gender equity laws before they are implemented. It's as simple as that it’s not broken,” Havi said. He spoke in Meru town on Tuesday when he opened the Law Society of Kenya Mount Kenya offices. Kenyans should interrogate the Building Bridges Initiative report thoroughly before making up their mind on whether to support it or not, Havi said. He said the rule of law and constitutionalism ought to be followed to avoid plunging the country into anarchy. Havi said the Judiciary is short-staffed as more than 40 judges who were recommended for appointment by the Judicial Service Commission have yet to get into office. President Uhuru Kenyatta refused to appoint the judges over unexplained integrity issues. “They have been languishing in jurisprudential purgatory for the last one year,” Havi said. He said that the courtrooms will not deliver justice with the lean staff. “We need those who are holding high offices to perform their responsibility. If we do not have judges, the court complex and rooms we are building will be of no value,” Havi said. He said he will rally demonstration in the streets to force the swearing-in of the judges. “There will be no propriety in seeking to replace Chief Justice Maraga yet the 40 judges have not been sworn in,” he said. Havi said the politicians have been pushing their agenda with the BBI document. He said Kenyans should analyse whether there will be an independent Judiciary if the President appoints an ombudsman to monitor the arm of government as proposed in the BBI report. The LSK boss said the Judiciary should be adequately funded. Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi said there are too many lies and exaggeration being told by those who have not read the BBI report. He said he will support it as it increases the funds to counties from 15 per cent to 35 per cent. “It is also creating a ward fund which will transform our villages,” Murungi said. He said the LSK should carefully study the BBI proposals and tell Kenyans if there is a ‘devil’ hiding in the details”. The county chief asked the LSK to provide more pro bono lawyers to help the poor get justice.  