Deputy President William Ruto and his allies' no holds barred attack on proposals of the Building Bridges Initiative has set the stage for a major political showdown. Today's formal launch of the BBI report is the beginning of a major political battle tipped to shape the referendum and the 2022 presidential contest. Delegates drawn from the 47 counties converge at the Bomas of Kenya to witness the official unveiling of the report by President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM chief Raila Odinga. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Sunday told off those opposing the Building Bridges Initiative and traversing the country telling Kenyans what they will do if elected in 2022. In an attack directed at DP William Ruto and his Tangatanga brigade, the President questioned what they will do that they cannot do now, yet they are in government. He spoke at Giagatika shopping centre in Mathira, Nyeri county, where he stopped to address residents. ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi is quietly but intensely working behind the scenes to position himself as the best person to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. Mudavadi has covertly been meeting key political players and grassroots leaders from various parts of the country for discussions on the current political environment and the 2022 election. In an exclusive interview with the Star, Mudavadi revealed that his discussions with key political figures have centred on possible future cooperation with leaders of other parties. Education CS George Magoha has warned schools against further reopening, as 931 more people tested positive for Covid-19 yesterday. Speaking in Nairobi, Magoha said the Cabinet is yet to approve the decision to reopen for other grades. “The government has not authorised the further reopening of other schools in public, private or international schools… that decision is yet to be considered by the Cabinet and when we get to it, the nation shall be told,” Magoha said. Exactly a year ago, Nzamba Kitonga penned an insightful statement poking holes in the final draft of the 2010 Constitution and revealing how a harmonised draft was watered down. Kitonga showed how MPs inflicted ‘mistakes’ in the harmonised draft that the  Committee of Experts (CoE), which he led, had come up with. The harmonised copy, he said, had captured the spirit of the Bomas Draft, the Kilifi Draft and the Wako Draft, but was diluted by the Parliamentary Committee on the Review of the Constitution in Naivasha.