Education Cabinet Secretary Prof George Magoha has said the planned full reopening of schools will go ahead as planned. The CS also said it would be impossible for the government to enforce social and physical distancing among learners in schools. Speaking at Kereri Girls in Kisii on Friday, the CS said spiralling enrolments in many schools across the country make it impractical for the Ministry of Education to enforce the required level of social distancing recommended by the Ministry of Health to stem Covid-19 infections. "You and I know how impractical this is...to get at this social distancing," stated Magoha. He rejected overtures to close schools in the face of the growing infections saying children have every right to be there. The CS, however, said all the government would do now is to provide more desks to schools as part of the efforts to stem further coronavirus cases. Kereri Girls School alone will get an additional 600 desks to enable students to study within some level of distancing from one another. The planned reopening of schools would also go on with no plans to delay. Magoha said nothing is going to change the earlier position taken on resumption of learning at schools. While acknowledging the soaring infections in schools, Magogha said the planned reopening of schools would not stop. "Whether there shall be a second or third wave of attacks, we have already made up our mind that schools will reopen for learning," said Magogha. Last week the CS said the reopening of schools would take place some time  soon. He urged parents to begin preparing students ahead of the announcement. Only learners in Grade 4, Class 8 and Form 4 have reopened and the government has already administered the first set of exams to them. The closure of schools in March this year, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, interrupted learning for more than 6 million students in the country. Education stakeholders have already sounded alarmed that the continued closure of schools exposes adolescent girls to a higher risk of sexual abuse, HIV and teenage pregnancy. In Kisii alone, more than 4000 girls have since March become pregnant owing to sexual exposure occasioned by the Covid 19 pandemic break. Incest cases have been on the rise making an already bad situation grave according to gender activists. Prof Magogha has been dithering in giving the probable dates for school reopening only saying they will do so soon. In July, Magoha had announced that schools will not re-open until 2021 due to fears of Covid-19 infections. Schools in Kenya were closed in March when the first case of coronavirus was confirmed.