Deputy President William Ruto and ODM boss Raila Odinga on Tuesday appeared to be setting the stage for a gruelling clash over the Building Bridges Initiative. Raila, who spoke moments before the DP on Mashujaa Day, called on the President to blow the whistle for the next phase of BBI that he said was abruptly stopped by devil from above – Covid 19. But Ruto took a swift swipe at Raila, calling for an all-inclusive conversation on the BBI report, which was born out of the ‘Handshake’ between Uhuru and Raila. Uhuru appeared to have a more conciliatory torn echoing the sentiments of his deputy on the inclusivity of the process. President Uhuru Kenyatta has warned that the country cannot afford to go into the 2022 general elections before radical constitutional changes are adopted. Uhuru identified three key issues, which he said require a constitutional settlement to decisively address the zero-sum constitutional dispensation. The President said Kenya is now staring at a Constitutional moment to entrench political inclusion, Equity in the distribution of national resources and cure electoral violence every election cycle. Uhuru said the zero-sum constitutional dispensation was never solved by the advent of the 2010 Constitution and time has come for “bold decisions the way the country's founding fathers did.” President Uhuru Kenyatta on Tuesday turned a deaf ear on clamour from the allies of his Deputy William Ruto and rolled out the Huduma Namba cards. Uhuru launched the cards during the 11th Mashujaa Day Celebrations at Gusii Stadium in Kisii, ignoring the DP’s men who have alleged a plot to rig the 2022 elections using Huduma Namba. They claimed the National Integrated Identity Management System, was being managed by a firm retained through the National Intelligence Service to rig out the DP in the upcoming 2022 polls. Appearing to be answering the DP’s lieutenants, Uhuru said that the Huduma Namba is an initiative that will ease the way Kenyans get government services. Some 723 buildings in the country have been marked as very dangerous by the National Construction Authority, meaning those living in them await disaster. From the assessed buildings, 10,791 were found to be very unsafe and either needed to be demolished or reinforced before occupation. Another 1,217 were found to be fair and only 2,194 certified safe. There are also thousands of unapproved buildings in Nairobi at risk of collapse, according to the data. The report recorded over 87 cases of collapsed buildings in the last five years. In one case last year, seven pupils at Precious Talent Top School in Nairobi’s, Dagoretti area died when the building came down on September 23. A Nairobi MCA wants the state barred from carrying out evictions during rainy weather and weekends. Parklands ward representative Jayendra Malde has drafted a bill that seeks to make it illegal to carry out evictions on weekends and during the rainy season. The Nairobi City County Evictions, Resettlement and Demolitions Control Bill, 2020, also proposes that demolitions of unauthorised structures in the capital should be carried out within the regular working hours, between Monday and Friday. It says demolitions may be done where the premises or land poses danger to a person or members of the public such as garbage dumps, riverbanks, sidewalks and parks. Another condition is if the land has been set aside for a public utility or a court order is issued for evictions or demolition. A lobby group wants the Msambweni by-election set for December 15 put off indefinitely because of the rising cases of Covid-19. Haki Africa has written to IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati saying political activities are to blame for the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Msambweni by-election, seen as a political battle between Deputy President William Ruto and ODM chief Raila Odinga, has seen political bigwigs jet to the Coast to drum up support for their candidates. At least 15 MPs, senators and a governor accompanied ODM candidate Omar Boga to the IEBC offices for clearance before holding a rally at Sawasawa grounds where thousands of supporters, the majority without facemasks, turned up. During independent candidate Feisal Bader’s clearance, at least 10 MPs and other politicians accompanied him before also holding a rally at the same ground.