@Yobramos4 Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho on Tuesday criticised Deputy President William Ruto’s hustler movement, saying it will divide Kenyans. Joho said the movement is precisely that of the poor against the rich, a divide he said President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga were trying to bridge through the Building Bridges Initiative. “It is so wrong for a leader to play with the emotions of the people because they want to be elected. I associate with the BBI because I want to see a united Kenya,” Joho said. He was speaking at the Mama Ngina Waterfront Park during  Mashiujaa Day celebrations in Mombasa. The governor was not expected to attend the event after his apologies were announced by the master of ceremonies, only for him to drive himself to the venue. He drove into one of the parking lots, alighted and walked towards the dais. Joho said Ruto was dangerously playing with the emotions of the poor, adding that the DP is whipping up emotions so he can divide Kenyans and in the process scuttle the BBI initiative. He said poverty is a bad thing that one should not glorify or use as a means to get to power. He said Ruto was hoodwinking Kenyans. “You cannot tell me, by all definitions, that the Deputy President of the Republic of Kenya is a poor man,” Joho said. “How do you say you are poor when you fly around with five helicopters?” In Kisii, during the national Mashujaa Day celebrations, Ruto said there was a need to bring everyone on board to ensure the country realises the much-needed unity. The DP called for dialogue to accommodate divergent views in the Building Bridges Initiative. "Former Prime Minister has talked about reggae. That is fine. But I guess we will have a robust national conversation that will bring everybody on board," Ruto said before he invited President Kenyatta to address the nation. Joho said BBI is about safeguarding the future of Kenyans. He said Ruto has been spreading lies that the BBI is about a few individuals "which is far from the truth". Joho said the BBI proposes more resources (35 per cent) to the counties as opposed to the current 15 per cent. “Then someone tells you to oppose this?” He said the increased allocation will create better opportunities for youth than wheelbarrows that the DP has been donating. Ruto has been distributing wheelbarrows and other equipment for small scale traders as a way of empowering the youth. “Kenya will not be run by wheelbarrows. Kenya will be run by equity, responsiveness to the people, a government that is pro-people, which is exactly what the BBI intends to do,” Joho said.  Edited by P.O