An elderly man has petitioned police bosses to protect him from his children, whom he accuses of harassing him over his wealth. Dalmas Hongo, 85, has sent the appeal to Nyanza regional police commander and Inspector General of Police. He said officers at Chemelil and Awasi police stations in Muhoroni subcounty have failed to take up his case despite numerous reports. At the centre of the dispute is his seven-acre farm on which the old man's home sits. He also has four acres at Awasi market and 35-acre Kotetni farm in Koru. Hongo has accused one of his elder daughters of financing her siblings to attack him at his home over the properties. The man has five wives and 38 children, some of whom are dead. The attacks have persisted despite orders issued by Nyando court barring his six children and son-in-law from interfering with him and other relatives. Hongo has sued Mary Lucy Aluodo, Brenda Awino Aluodo, Joseph Guya Aluodo, David Ojwang’ Aluodo, Joshua Tako Aluodo, George Ouma Aluodo and Samson Owuor Onyango (son-in-law). In September Hongo was granted orders by Nyando senior resident magistrate Reuben Sang barring the children from accessing and interfering with him or relatives at his Awasi home. Sang barred the respondents from entering, building, alienating and interfering with Hongo and his homestead. “This court hereby issues a temporary order of injunction restraining the respondents either by themselves or through their agents or any other person deriving their authority from communicating with the plaintiff through mobile phone or any other form of electronic communication pending hearing and determination of the application in court,” he ruled. Hongo, in court documents, says the respondents have been directly and indirectly orchestrating activities in his homestead meant to provoke, intimidate and ridicule him. "These include hurling abuses at me, threatening me with physical violence, threatening my other children and my fifth wife with similar violence, creating mayhem in my home, calling me names and mocking my ailment." He said they have damaged his crops, violently stopped construction of a gate and assaulted other family members. One of his sons, Moses Aluodo, said some family members, including their mother Lorna Atieno and her children, have been forced to stay at hotels in town for fear of their lives. "We have six Occurrence Book numbers as evidence to prove that no action has been taken by the police,” he said. Aluodo said he has received death threats. Hongo wants protection for himself, wife Lorna, Moses and daughter Faith Dorothy. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya