The national policy paper for fighting corruption in the country has been launched. The National Ethics and Anti-Corruption policy provides a comprehensive process for the design and development of an effective legal and institutional framework in the war on graft. It provides the anti-graft agencies with a platform to monitor and evaluate the implementation of anti-corruption measures. Anti-graft crusaders have previously faulted the government for lack of anti-corruption policy paper that provides a clear framework on how to implement strategies aimed at combating graft. The policy, which was launched on Wednesday in Nairobi, is expected to eliminate institutional overlaps and address the legal weaknesses that have hampered the war on corruption among the various agencies. EACC chairman Eliud Wabukala, CEO Twalib Mbarak and DCI George Kinoti attended the launch. The policy was developed by the office of the Attorney General headed by Kihara Kariuki and department of Justice with input from anti-corruption agencies. The anti-corruption agencies include, the EACC, the National Anti-Corruption Campaign Steering Committee, the Assets Recovery Agency and the Financial Reporting centre. Through the policy, it is expected that all agencies dealing with the war on corruption will offer the much-needed institutional and legal framework on how various agencies can collaborate. This would eliminate unnecessary inter-agency tussles and do away with frequent squabbles over jurisdictions. “In as much as the country needs dedicated anti-corruption agencies, it is imperative that a holistic emphasis and facilitation of the full justice chain be undertaken to have an effective and sustained anti-corruption outcomes,” reads the policy document. Reports by the EACC have indicated that despite the anti-corruption measures in place, corruption still remains high both in national and country governments “This state of affairs has been compounded by a lack of a systematic, coherent and sustained ethics, integrity and anti-corruption policy that responds to the complexity and the ever-changing patterns and manifestations of corruption,” the document reads. The policy also seeks to enhance public participation as well as creating a coordinated and integrated approach, ensure intensified and targeted efforts, reduce prevalence levels and structure regional and international anti-corruption instruments. The document identifies some of the challenges hampering the fight against corruption as poor observance of the code of conduct, ambiguity in some laws and conflicting sections of the law which lead to institutional overlaps. During his State of the National Address on March 26, 2015, President Uhuru Kenyatta directed the office of the Attorney general to initiate a review of the legislative and policy framework for graft fight. The President had instructed that the policy would ensure effective discharge of constitutional imperatives related to integrity.