When Covid-19 hit home in March, so many precautions were put in place by the government from social distancing to locking some parts of the country. After the first case was announced on March 13, many businesses closed, some people were laid off while others decided to quit over the tough working conditions that were put in place. But the resolve of companies and their resilience did not go down the drain as employers looked for ways to ensure that businesses went on. This brought the rise of working from home, an ideology that was not embraced so much before coronavirus but became more rampant after Covid. While major organisations furloughed workers our culture's dramatic shift to working from home is the true breakout business story from this pandemic. The transition has certainly had its share of ups and downs, but rapidly growing acceptance indicates this is a trend that is almost certainly going to shape the future of work. “In as much as organisations have allowed us to work from home, I find it so comforting and with fewer restrictions,” a lady Caren told the Star. She says that working remotely has made her realise how much she can do with the 8 hours she is required to work. “I do not have to shower in the morning. I will wake up at around 8 am and by 8.15 am latest I will be in my work station ready to begin the day. This has been helpful because I do not have to hustle for matatus to work,” she says. While news stories have had a tendency to focus on parents and specifically mothers struggling while sharing a space with kids, Caren who is a mother of one says that the situation has enabled her time with her little baby. “I have a house manager so the baby does not disturb me as much but then when I take lunch breaks, I spend it with my baby so working remotely should be the norm,” she adds. All signs indicate that while working from home may be a temporary move for some organisations, many hope to make it a permanent part of their work life. Mercy* tells the Star that in as much as working from home has been the best thing that happened in her life, she has had some setbacks that make her think about working from home and in the office. “Well, I end up working more than in the office for sure. But it's given me more time with the babies and to supervise them around the house,” she said. “For me, as a natural homemaker, it gives me the advantage of family time. And as an indoors person, I love being in the house.” When asked whether working from home is fulfilling, Mercy says that it depends on the employer. “To a big extent, yes. But depends on the employer. In some organisations, they need to see you online to know you're working. In other companies, they don't bother as long as you clock in and out, and your output is seen,” she said. She notes that working remotely has made her learn new skills that she did not know she had in her. “Personally I have had more time to do little things I previously couldn't; like I get a chance to cook, host on weekdays, bake, do homework with the children (even sit in a class so I know when they're attending lessons or skiving,” she said. But then not all think it's liberating to work from home. Dennis Omondi* says that staying at home while working has made it hard to concentrate. “Children will keep on crying while bumping into zoom meetings. For some of us, we do not have extra rooms so in that one apartment is where we are all cooped up. So it gets messier sometimes,” he says. Omondi says that apart from that , leaving in the slums doesn't guarantee that they will have electricity at all times. “Electricity in these areas are quite unpredictable. Sometimes it is on sometimes it is off. And when it goes off it takes time to resume. So you find that you can not reach your target for the day,” he says. He notes that being a man who likes putting his hands-on duties, staying at home working online has not enabled him to get the side hustles that he is used to. “All in all, remote working has it's up and downs but I would rather just go to work,” he added. The increased potential for remote work holds significant promise because you are positioned to live the lifestyle you want to cut out a variety of office- and commuting-related costs. However, not all jobs can be done from home and some people must just go to the office to ensure that they serve their clients or customers. Data shared by European mobility platform-Bolt, which operates in 35 countries, indicates that most of their employees prefer to work from home but visit the office for infrequent and periodic meetings or social interaction with colleagues. The survey conducted among 1000 Bolt employees at the beginning of June indicated that almost 80 per cent of Bolt employees would like to work from home at least half of the time or more. Based on the key card use data from Bolt HQ in Tallinn, Estonia, office visits peak during the company’s all-hands meetings and on Fridays for social gatherings. “During the Covid lockdown, many of our employees were surprised how efficient they were working from home. However, the conditions certainly differ based on someone’s living situation and personal preferences. We want to enable everyone to work where and when they find it most convenient,”  said Ola Akinnusi, Country Manager at Bolt Kenya.