It was in January this year when Deputy President William Ruto claimed on national TV there are elements within the government plotting to revive his ICC case. Maybe he knew something that we didn't. Ironically, this week, his allies called on The Hague-based court (pictured) to investigate what they claimed was state-instigated violence. Sources whisper to Corridors that ICC detectives could be landing in the country soon if they are not here already. However, their mission is not clear. ICC Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda bitterly complained when vacating the Ruto and Uhuru Kenyatta cases that she was obstructed from getting evidence by the Kenyan government. In fact, she promised to revive the cases if evidence becomes available. A political stalwart with presidential ambitions in 2022 has stunned his competitor after he launched a full attack on another contender. The politician is not known for throwing heavy rocks. Some politicos supporting his target were head whispering the man is under firm instructions by shadowy operatives to hit out at their man on certain negative narratives. As a reward, his presidential campaign will be funded, they whisper. They allege the man has been spotted several times in the evening tiptoeing to the operations offices of power brokers. We recently told you of a governor's wife who flew out of Nairobi with a sackful of cash to pacify angry MCAs. Well, the county's 'First Lady' comes from one of the marginalised counties. It has now emerged the lady who previously served in government is pulling the levers of county government, to the bemusement of administration officials. She is even said to decide who gets what tenders. Those in the know say the tenure of the first-term governor has been chaotic. Residents now say the former county chief who was rejected in the last election was a saint who has projects to his name. They're sorry they kicked him out. Some contractors working on a rural electrification project funded by the donor community in parts of the Kisii region are causing residents to suffer. Rogue employees of the firms contracted to fulfil the Last Mile connectivity project are said to be levying illegal charges on poor locals before connecting their homes to power. Sometimes, they 'ask' for Sh1,000 to Sh2,000 from every household before getting them meters. Thousands of households could have lost millions of shillings to the con men taking advantage of their naivety to defraud them. Connectivity is supposed to be free of charge as it is fully funded by donors. Residents, especially from the South Mugirango constituency, want agencies to probe the rogues and save them. 