Nairobi is the leading city across Africa for online food delivery, a survey shows. It is followed by Casablanca (Morocco), Lagos (Nigeria), Kampala (Uganda) and Abidjan (Ivory Coast). Kenya also leads the pack in mobile internet penetration, showing the tendency of Kenyans to browse via their smartphones and desktops. Urban, young and tech savvy people between 25 and 34 are the largest segment of consumers. The Kenya Food Index Report 2020 indicates the estimated market size for online food and beverage in Kenya is Sh1.8 billion and projected to reach 3.8 billion by 2024–African Development Bank (AFDB). The country’s 2.1million active online consumers are expected to double by 2024. “This projection is encouraging as it promises job creation and an injection to the local economy - assuming the Digital Economy is allowed to flourish,” e-commerce platform Jumia says. Jumia Food is present in Nairobi, Nakuru, Eldoret, Kisumu and Mombasa, and partners with close to 1,000 restaurants across Kenya. Non-restaurant services available on Jumia Food include groceries, pharmacies,beverages, gas and water - all delivered to customers doorsteps. The survey shows that chicken was the most ordered cuisine in the country between March and August 2020, followed by burgers and pizza. This is in the wake of Covid-19 restrictions that kept families at home, with closure of hotels and restaurants pushing individuals to office and home deliveries. The survey comes ahead of the World Food Day marked on October 16, with a focus on food trends in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. Kenyans spent Sh2,000 on average for a meal on Jumia Food, which is 25 per cent higher than the same period last year, while the least expensive meals cost as low as Sh200. “Home delivery from restaurants and supermarkets is growing fast, as more consumers are choosing to order from home or the office and want to avoid crowds. We have been working hard this year to continue to improve our quality of service,” Jumia CEO Sam Chappatte said. Average delivery times on Jumia Food are down to 35 minutes today in Kenya, he noted. “I expect we will do better by the end of the year. We are also signing up more restaurants and stores, particularly smaller independents, so that customers have the choice they expect, at affordable prices,” Chappatte added. The report also shows that foreign cuisines are gaining more popularity, with Kenyans opting for burgers and pizzas and exploring different cuisines like Indian and Chinese meals. This data implies that Kenyan families are becoming more creative and less traditional in the way they source for their meals. New services like Jumia Prime have played a key role in bringing down the cost of food delivery, as the service allows unlimited free delivery for customers who subscribe to the service. Free delivery also extends to the main Jumia e-commerce platform (for free delivery on products). Enhanced availability of popular vendors and increased mobile and internet penetration in the country have also played a role in raising awareness of online shopping platforms such as Jumia Food. Baba-Nyama- Choma is the most popular local independent restaurant on Jumia Food, followed closely by Marita’s Bhajias, Swahili Plate and Wok on Wheels. KFC is the most popular international chain. Players in the market continue to adopt various developmental strategies to expand their fast food market share, increase profitability and remain competitive (such as dark stores). “We are grateful to all consumers who have supported local restaurants and food vendors since the outbreak and urge them to use online to help sustain businesses during this difficult time” said Jumia Food Chief Commercial Officer, Shreenal Ruparelia.