The Gavi-led initiative to secure Covid-19 vaccines for developing countries is inching closer to its goal to raise an initial Sh200 billion ($2 billion). The initiative has now raised about Sh180 billion ($1.8 billion), Gavi, the Geneva-based vaccines alliance, said in a statement. The announcement came after Japan made a commitment of $130 million to the Gavi Covax Advance Market Commitment, the initiative to secure Covid-19 vaccines for countries across the Global South. “This vital funding not only helps us ensure lower-income countries aren’t left at the back of the queue when safe and effective Covid-19 vaccines become available. It will also play a vital role in ending the acute phase of this pandemic worldwide,” Gavi CEO Seth Berkley said. In order to reserve and access one billion doses for AMC-eligible economies, the Gavi Covax AMC has set an initial fundraising goal of $2 billion by the end of 2020 to reserve and accelerate doses. This will be enough to vaccinate about 20 per cent of the population in each of the participating countries. Gavi said at least $5 billion more is needed in 2021 to procure doses as they come through the portfolio. “In order to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, it is important to aim at ‘leaving no one’s health behind’ and achieve UHC, while taking a stand for the principle of ‘human security'. Japan has led the global support quickly and proactively to achieve UHC,” Japan Foreign minister Motegi Toshimitsu said. Alongside the 92 low- and middle-income economies eligible for support, are 77 higher-income economies that will finance their own vaccines through the Covax Facility. The Covax Facility is part of Covax, the vaccines pillar of the Access to Covid-19 Tools Accelerator. Covax is coordinated by the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, and the World Health Organization  – working alongside developed and developing countries, vaccine manufacturers, Unicef, the World Bank, civil society organisations and others. It aims to ensure the availability of Covid-19 vaccines for populations around the world, regardless of financial means. Developing countries will be required to pay about $1.6 (Sh174) to $2 (Sh217) per dose of the vaccine, which will cost a maximum $3 (Sh326).