Wiper Party will work with proponents of the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) in convincing anti-change agents to support it. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, while speaking in Nyeri on Saturday after completing his two-day tour of Laikipia and Nyeri counties, said anti-change agents must finally see the light. “We have a business to try to convince them because it is also their right to oppose it. It is until the virtues in the BBI are explained to them properly and they are convinced that it is the right way to go,” he said. Kalonzo visited the counties to popularise his party and drum-up support for the BBI. He said the document will bring inclusivity in governance and address issues affecting all Kenyans without discrimination including fighting corruption. He called on Wiper members in the area to support it saying the party gave its inputs, which were incorporated in the document. Wiper, he said, wanted to see Ward Development Fund started so that every ward gets a share of five per cent of money that will be disbursed in their respective counties. “This money will help our people at the grassroots. Everyone will enjoy county government services. However, introducing changes has its own challenges because there are always anti-change agents,” he said. He cited the police, whom he said want to have their uniforms changed, medics who want an independent commission. The formula for the two-third gender rule, which women have been agitating for, has been found, he added. He called on Kenyans to be serious and embrace the changes being introduced in the BBI, adding that the party has a business to try and convince those against the BBI to support it. The former vice president in former President Mwai Kibaki’s government said the document will ensure every community is treated equally, buys land and settles anywhere in the country without being discriminated on or harassed. The party, he said, is ready to work with President Uhuru Kenyatta and together they are reaching out to others to ensure there is equity. “We appreciate that the majority must have their way and the minority must also have their say because that is what democracy is all about,” he said. Kalonzo was accompanied by deputy party leader Farah Maalim, party chairman Chirau Ali Mwakwere,  CAS Wavinya Ndeti some Wiper MPs and other party officials.