Avocado farmers from Central and Rift Valley regions have received an annual bonus of Sh12 million from an exporting company. The farmers received Sh5 bonus per kilogramme of avocados sold to Mofarm Fresh Fruits Exporters from January this year. The Sh5 bonus is deducted from Sh80 the farmers receive for every kilogramme of avocados they deliver to the company. They are later given the cash as bonus. Another Sh5 is deducted to pay youths for every kilogramme they harvest for the farmers. The youths have been trained by the company to harvest fruits to avoid bruising, which may lead to rejection in the marker. Company’s CEO Elijah Kamau said he consolidated farmers into groups in 2016 and engaged them in contract farming. The company has about 60 groups of farmers countrywide. The farmers agreed to practice organic farming to access export market. The firm then organised numerous training forums for farmers on organic farming and the benefits of using organic manure. “Most farmers think organic farming is complicated yet it only means not using chemicals while growing crops,” Kamau said. Once farmers understand the adverse effects fertilisers have on the soil, they are able to embrace organic farming and reap from its benefits, he said. Kamau spoke when he gave bonus payments to Irigiro Avocado Farmers Group in Kigumo, Murang’a county, on Friday. He however noted that fruits from farmers who are yet to be certified as organic are bought and sold separately. Kamau said the only challenge limiting farmers’ returns is lack of water for irrigation, which hampers the quantity and quality of fruits produced. The low supply of the fruit in turn pushes the demand for the prestigious avocado oil up, with many companies producing it mainly for export. The company mostly sells its fruits to Egypt, Russia and European countries such as Holland and Spain. Though avocado supply was not affected by Covid-19, it fetched low prices which lowered farmers’ payment. Kamau said the transportation of fresh produce from the Mombasa port to the European countries is too expensive, costing up to $10,000, while exporters in countries such as Egypt pay $3,000 only. “Only two transport companies operate on the route. If the government intervenes and more companies join in, the charges would decrease and farmers’ returns increase,” Kamau said. Irigiro group coordinator Joseph Ndarachu said the Sh80 per kilogramme of avocado the farmers receive is an increase from the Sh1 they previously received from brokers who bought their produce before they started contract farming. Ndarachu said his group has 154 members who have now been able to support their families and uplift their lives through avocado farming. Irigiro area is semi-arid and many farmers have uprooted the coffee bushes that they previously relied on due to poor returns. Farmer Mwaura Ngorone said though he has retained his coffee farm, his avocado trees give him much better returns. He said coffee pays a maximum of Sh50 per kilogramme. “I will not discard my coffee but I am happy with the returns I'm getting from the fruits yet they require less attention,” he said. Jane Njeri said she had avocado trees in her farm for many years, she only realised their worth after she engaged in contract farming. Njeri said she now understands the harmful effects of fertilisers and their health implications. “As women, now we are able to educate our children and improve the quality of our lives with constant income we get from avocados,” Njeri said. 