Tusker FC's lethal and clinical finisher Boniface Muchiri says he is ready to battle tooth and nail for a slot in the starting lineup as Kenya prepares to face Comoros head-on in the next African Cup of Nations Qualifiers double-header. Muchiri was handed a fresh berth in the national team by the newly appointed head coach Jacob 'Ghost' Mulee after a groin injury he sustained in the US late last year ruled him out of competition for the better part of the concluded season. He was conspicuously absent from the Harambee Stars squad that edged Chipolopolo of Zambia 2-1 in an international friendly match at Nyayo Stadium a fortnight ago. The mercurial forward now says he is ecstatic about the call up and has subsequently thanked Mulee for the surprise move. "It's a pleasant surprise. I'm totally excited... I'm extremely happy. I wish to thank 'Ghost' for affording me the opportunity," said Muchiri. Mulee named a provisional squad on Sunday that seems to be a blend of youth and experience. Although he didn't tinker with his predecessor Francis Kimanzi's squad, he handed maiden caps to a couple of players including Benson Omalla of Gor Mahia, Elly Asieche of Sofapaka and Peter Thiong'o of AFC Leopards. The 23-year-old jetted out of the country to try out for Reno 1868 in the US Third Division at the height of his three-year contract with the Brewers who snapped him from Awendo-based millers, Sony Sugar. He made his way back to the country after a groin injury he sustained during a match blew up his dreams to turn professional. He had attracted attention abroad following a string of impressive exploits with Tusker that saw him stand well in contention for the golden boot award after he found the back of the net 12 times, a feat that instantly endeared him to former national team coach Sebastian Migne who handed him his debut call up to Harambee Stars. Muchiri first featured for the national team in an international friendly against Uganda at Kasarani Stadium in a tie that ended in a one all draw after Kenneth Muguna's strike cancelled out Emmanuel Okwi's opener for the visiting nation. Mulee is expected to name the final 20 players from the provisional squad that will kick off non-residential training on Wednesday, October 28, 2020 with the foreign-based players checking in from November 2, 2020. The first leg of the Qualifiers will be played at the MISC Kasarani on November 11, 2020, at 7 pm, under floodlights, while the second leg has been slated for November 15, 2020.