Deputy President William Ruto has chided ODM leader Raila over claims that IEBC can conduct a Sh2 billion referendum. IEBC had claimed that the referendum would cost Sh14b, a figure that Raila said was outrageous and that only Sh2b was required. But Ruto on Friday asked leaders to leave independent institutions out of their debates. "Leave IEBC alone because even the previous referendum cost us about Sh10 billion with 12 million voters. How do you then expect to spend Sh2 billion on a referendum with 19 million voters?" he posed. "This cannot happen! Kwa hivyo mtu wa kitendawili awache kutuhadaa. He(Raila) is not a professional in election matters and with his brigade they should not bring disrespect to the constitution." Ruto said that people should not keep talking about IEBC maintaining that even if Raila's brother was to be put as the chairman, Kenyans will decide who their president will be. "Whoever the chairman will be it will not matter and this they should take it to the bank," he said when he spoke at General Kago stadium in Kangema, Murang'a county. The deputy president had gone for an empowerment programme for the boda boda operators. While lashing at those questioning his hustler movement, Ruto said his joy was that the movement has sparked a national dialogue. "It is my joy that through this movement we are going to change the narrative. It has always been the rich against the poor where they want to create positions for themselves but going forward we must bring boda boda, wheelbarrow and mkokoteni in that debate," he said. Ruto said the BBI debate must put into consideration the empowerment of the ordinary citizens and not just expansion of leadership positions. "Those speaking ill about me let them be reminded that I know what I am doing...I am not a fool or a drunkard, the BBI debate must go hand in hand with our big four agenda," he said. Ruto said through the BBI debate, all leaders must strive to sit and build a consensus and find a referendum that will not necessarily have a yes or no campaign. "Some people want to bring hatred in the whole debate, if they want politics they should wait for  2022 and of course they should be well prepared," he said. "I believe as leaders it is possible for all of us to agree on a consensus that will bring all together, we can all be winners if we agree to sit together."