About 70 per cent of households in Nairobi;'s low-income areas now fear that their children would contract the coronavirus in school. A survey report released by the Trends and Insights for Africa-TIFA indicates that more women are more worried about their children contracting the disease compared to men. According to the survey conducted in Huruma, Kibera, Mathare, Korogocho, Mkuru kwa Njenga and Kawangware, 23 per cent of the respondents said the children will be safe in school compared to seven per cent who said they are not sure. The survey was conducted between September 24 and October 2 with 555 respondents being interviewed. Out of this number, 281 were male while 274 were female with a margin error of +/-4.2 per cent. The survey indicates that while 73 per cent of the women respondents showed more concern about their children contracting the virus in school, 67 per cent of male showed the same concern. The survey further indicates that 44 per cent of the respondents are worried that school-going children will still contract the disease even when out of school. 35 per cent of these are male compared to 51 per cent female. The survey indicates that 76 per cent of the respondents reported the presence of school-going children in their households. "Only four-in-10 of those with school-age children indicate that they are accessing learning content through various platforms whilst at home. The two most common main ways of accessing such content are TV and smart-phones," the survey notes. This comes as the majority of schools on Monday reported a low turnout for grade 4, class 8 pupils and Form 4 students. A spot check revealed that in some cases more than half of the learners stayed home on the first day of the term. Teachers spend most of the time explaining to students why they should not share personal items like masks during this period. Others had to explain to the learners how to adjust and cope up with the school environment after staying home for close to six months. According to the report, 40 per cent said their children had the access to educational content with 36 per cent accessing the content on TV, 34 per cent on smart-phones, 11 per cent Radio, six per cent having to read books, 5 per cent being taught by a teacher and 2 per cent through a computer. Thirty-four per cent of those who access these educational content found it very useful, 27 per cent said it is somewhat useful, another 27 per cent said is only a little useful and 10 per cent said it is not useful at all. Some 29 per cent of the respondents said their children are giving attention to the educational content a great deal while 18 per cent saying their children would render somewhat attention to the content. The report says it cannot be assumed that all these children are accessing the same educational content. Given that most of them not in their final, examination year will remain out of school until next year, it is unclear how much attention even those who can access it will continue to give to such content," reads part of the report. It says much will depend on whether parents consider this a priority, and have the resources of whatever nature to encourage or require their children to put in at least some time for study. With such challenges manifesting in Nairobi, the report says it can be assumed that children in most rural areas are facing even greater challenges with regard to making full use of whatever educational content they can access.