During this period of coronavirus, some of the households that were having women come and wash their clothes are now turning to buy washing machines to save on cost and time. Since technology has played a huge part during this period, companies such as LG have been making a large profit out of selling washing machines. They have one of their latest washing machines that they released two weeks back called the LG AI DD Washing machine. With this machine, you will say goodbye to noise and welcome silence as it does the washing for you. It has the AI (Artificial Intelligence) DD motor that assures you of less noise and vibration thus it will give you peace of mind by not making noise for your neighbours by just pressing a button on the washing machine. It also has Steam+ that helps to prevent your loved ones who might be allergic to cats, dogs, or even dust and pollen. It ensures that the dust or pollen and pet dander are completely washed out of your laundry. The Steam+ washing machine feature comes with Allergy Care. This feature removes 99.9 per cent of any allergens that might be trapped in your load of laundry. Allergy Care works by raising the washing machine temperature to the optimal level where loosened allergens can be dissolved from clothes. These dissolved allergens are then reduced by being drained during the machine’s rinse and spin cycles. This feature is not just protecting you and your loved ones from allergens but is also making cleaning your clothes a breeze. When it comes to steam washing, the LG AI DD washing machines actually mean steam washing. This washing machine uses Artificial Intelligence, cares about your fabric, uses less energy and washes within the shortest time possible and it is durable. It has a new design identity with a tempered glass door and the door frame is enhanced to improve stability and durability. To make it more durable, this machine comes with a stainless filter that also increases the hygiene as well as making the fabric durable by taking good care of them. All the areas touched by clothes in the machine are made of stainless steel and relieves the worry about clothes being contaminated by bacteria. This washing machine actually has enough space to produce only steam without wetting your fabric, not until you are ready to supply water to the target level. This is unlike what you get with conventional washing machines. LG’s steam washing makes the wash more efficient as it activates the detergent more effectively. It also has the Wrinkle Care that makes ironing easy as your fabric enjoys a 30 per cent reduction in Wrinkles when you use the Steam+ option on the washing machine. With this machine, you will be able to enjoy doing your laundry and save on the cost of having to pay someone to do laundry for you.