You might be required to continue wearing your mask, sanitising, avoiding gatherings and keeping social distancing even after a Covid-19 vaccine is approved. More than 200 vaccine candidates are undergoing clinical trials, with at least three being in the final phase three trials. A team of researchers has argued that the vaccine once rolled out might not be a silver bullet. They argue that several challenges are likely to be experienced for some time in relation to access, manufacture and storage, efficacy of the vaccine as well as public trust and vaccine hesitancy. The paper, The devolve initiative 2020; SARS-CoV-2 vaccine development and implementation: Scenarios, options, key decisions, was published on October 1. The experts argue that initial vaccines might not work for everyone and might provide only short term immunity. “Few vaccines give lifelong protection following a single dose. A partially protective vaccine may not be effective in priority groups, may allow onward transmission or could require higher vaccination rates to achieve the same levels of protection in a population,” the experts said. They said rare adverse events or limited effectiveness may only come to light when large numbers of people are vaccinated. As a result, multiple doses may be needed to stimulate an effective level of immunity and if a candidate yields short-lived immunity, boosters may be required. The study also says problems with vaccine hesitancy should be anticipated, adding that other barriers to vaccine uptake such as financial disincentives should be removed. “Acceptability will be determined by factors such as efficacy, doses required, side-effects and perceived risks,” the research findings state. Kenya has a history of vaccine hesitancy and distrust, mainly fuelled by the church’s skepticism. For instance, the Catholic Church has always held the belief that the tetanus vaccine is being used to depopulate Kenya. Just recently, there was public uproar over the HPV vaccine rolled out by the government in an effort to curb cervical cancer in the country. “There are a number of reasons for vaccine hesitancy and a range of strategies are needed, such as convert communicators, where those with previously strongly held opinions explain why they changed their mind.” The researchers have also raised the fears of uneven access to vaccines among various countries, as well as limited production due to limitations in supply chain of material and delivery systems. They have argued that efforts to improve thermostability of vaccines and minimise the requirement for low temperatures for distribution might be required. Similarly, manufacturers will be required to scale up production to meet the huge global demand for the vaccine, but they argue this might be a challenge in the beginning hence the need to give priority to certain groups. The World Health Organization team of experts has advised that priority be given to frontline healthcare workers, the older population and those with comorbid conditions at the initial phases of the vaccine rollout. According to the researchers, key information such as the ability of the vaccine to prevent disease in different groups such as older people, the longevity of the immune response, tolerability and safety will remain unknown until after the initial data on the first vaccine trials emerges. Additionally, the virus that causes Covid-19 must be monitored for mutations that might make it resistant to vaccines. Edited by Henry Makori