Enterprise Cup champions Kabras have signed South African duo of Ntokozo Vidima and Aphiwe Stemaz for the 2020/2021 season. Vidima is utility forward player, who can play flanker or lock and has had stints at Sharks and Free State Cheetahs and played last for the Border Bulldogs. Stemaz is a fly-half and an excellent kicker and has played for the Free State Cheetahs and Border Bulldogs. Kabras RFC chairman, Phillip Jalango, said the addition of the duo will bring competition to the team in their positions. "They are two very gifted players and will add quality to our side as we look at winning the Kenya Cup next season," he noted. Jalango observed that the side will promote some youngsters from second-string side and give them a chance to play for the first team. "We want to promote from within and give some of our youngsters a chance to play and learn the ropes from their senior counterparts,” noted. The duo become the latest  South Africans to play for the Kakamega-based side, who two season ago, had fly-half, Logan Basson, Number eight Claude Johannes and inside centre Mario Wilson. The sugar millers topped the group phase for the second year running before the rest of the season was suspended due to Covid 19 pandemic. The team had started minimal training with only sevens players allowed while observing strict social distancing as part of the Covid-19 protocols. Jalango was hopeful that the government will give the sport green-light to resume contact training next month ahead of pre-season which will take six weeks, most likely from  January. “If we start our pre- season in early or mid November, then the season should start in the new year and end in April," noted Jalango. Zimbabwe's Mzingaye Nyathi will coach the side this season after South African Henley Du Plessis left the club in June following a successful two-year stint at the club. He will be assisted by South Africa's Felix Reyon , who will double up as a backs coach. Former Kenya's Simbas scrum-half Edwin Achayo will be in charge of youth and development in the side