Murang’a politicians from both sides on Sunday fought off an intelligence report saying they were involved in planning the chaos in Kenol town, Murang’a, on Sunday. October 4. Christopher Kariuki, 21, and Peter Mbothu, 15, were killed in the violence that greeted the arrival of Deputy President William Ruto at a fundraiser at AIPCA Church. According to the intelligence report seen by the Star, politicians from both sides of the Jubilee faction in the county were involved in planning and executing the chaos. Everyone contacted denied they  played a role or had any knowledge of events. The report said that Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege and former MCA Alex Mbote, who is now Governor Mwangi Wairia’s political advisor, planned the chaos. It said Tangatanga-leaning MPs Alice Wahome (Kandara) and Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu) mobilised youths for a counterattack. But the politicians rubbished the claims, terming rumours and diversionary. “Those are rumours. That day I was not even near Kenol. Anybody saying that [that I was involved] wants to soil my name,” Mbote told the Star. When reached for comment, Chege said, "I am not aware." Nyoro termed the report petty and diversionary, adding he had provided details to police of how some county politicians planned and executed the violence. “The state must stop playing politics. Do they think Kenyans are fools? How could we have planned to disrupt our own function? How possible is that? Or they are saying we still disrupted [the DP’s event in] Nyamira?” Nyoro asked. Wahome did not respond to phone calls and a text message seeking her comment on the report. According to the report, Mbote was allegedly tasked by Chege to mobilise youths to disrupt the DP’s function. It said Mbote planned the attack at a hotel in Thika Town. He met about 30 men, referred to as unit leaders, whom he had mobilised to execute he chaos. “Mr Mbote, who was the ring leader, tasked each member to mobilise 10 youths for the task ahead. They took lunch and some drinks and Mr Mbote paid via pay bill number over Sh15,000,” the report reads. Later, Mbote called Chege, who instructed that they meet at a club within Murang’a county. The woman rep was with other politicians from the county the report read. At the meeting, Mbote demanded Sh3 million from the lawmakers but they negotiated and settled on Sh1.5 million. He drove to another club where he met another politician who gave him the cash. On that Sunday, Mbote is said to have hired a taxi, the one he had used the day before, to Thika town where he met the 30 unit leaders – each at different times. He gave them cash for logistics and down payments. “On October 10, 2020…. youths (goons) were ferried by several matatus from Kiandutu slums of Thika, Weitethia, Mugoiri and Kiriainito, Kenol where they alighted at Makenji area of Kabatito the venue,” the report read. MPs Wahome and Nyoro, who had got wind of the planned chaos, according to the report, mobilised youth from Kandara and Kangema and others from Nairobi county from where they were ferried to counter Mbote’s team. (Edited by J. Muchangi)