Three-time Kenya open champion Ismael Changawa and Ibrahim Kibet are set to play international tournaments next month in Swaziland and Egypt respectively. Changawa and Kibet warmed up for the tournaments by playing a unique exhibition doubles tournament at the Nairobi Club over the weekend. Changawa teamed up with Rosehilda Asumwa to edge Kibet and Angela Okutoyi 6-3, 7-5. Tennis was one of the sports given the greenlight to resume activities by the Ministry of Sports last month, alongside athletics and golf, after it is considered a low coronavirus transmission risk sport. Changawa was delighted to get some action after a seven-month layoff, occasioned by Covid-19. "This was important for me. It has been long layoff and going to the tournament in Swaziland, I needed to get some practice to keep myself sharp and also test my fitness,” said Changawa. The tournament is slated for November 4-8 in Mbabane, Swaziland. The tournament in Swaziland will feature some of Africa's top seeds and Changawa is relishing the challenge of meeting the continent's best players. "I'm ready to play the best and gauge myself. It's been a difficult year with no tournaments but we hope once we enter the new year, there will be some semblance of normalcy returning to allow us play as many tournaments as possible,” added Changawa. Kibet is scheduled to play in the doubles category in Egyptian championship on November 26. "The tournament in Egypt is going to be highly competitive and intense so playing in the exhibition event helped me identify my strengths and weaknesses,” said Kibet. Asumwa, who had been entered for the Africa  Junior championship in Togo in March, which was cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic was delighted to return to action. "I'm happy that we have a chance to play and it fits in nicely for next season,” said Asumwa. Okutoyi, the top-ranked junior on the continent, said she has intensified her training to five days a week and looks forward to improve her rankings in the new year.