The Democratic Party and Akorino Church have rejected sections of the Building Bridges Initiative report and called for amendments before a referendum. DP’s organising secretary Njagi Kumantha and Archbishop John Njiru said if sections of the report are not reviewed the objectives that  prompted President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga to come up with the initiative will not be achieved. Kumantha said Uhuru and Raila’s main aim of coming up with the BBI initiative was to stop repeated violence every five years after presidential elections owing to dissatisfaction of losers. He argued that the report does not address the issues that cause election violence. He cited malpractices such as corruption, rigging and vote-buying which make losers feel they did not lose fairly. Kumantha said the report has not put in place mechanisms for curbing corruption but instead it has removed control measures which were directed at tackling the vice. He said the proposal that Cabinet ministers be appointed from the National Assembly and that they will not be vetted after appointment by the President would lead to malpractices. Kumantha said since Members of Parliament are supposed to allocate funds to the Executive, it means Cabinet ministers appointed from the National Assembly cannot oversight themselves or their colleagues. He hailed the BBI report for proposing allocation of 35 per cent of the revenue to the counties up from the current 15 per cent but argued that there are no measures in place to prevent misappropriation. Considering the ineffective oversight role of the proposed National Assembly, the money will be easily misappropriated, he said. Kumantha and Njiru said the proposal increases representation in the Senate and National Assembly by having a male and female senator for each county and a male and female MP for every constituency. The new offices of prime minister and two deputy prime ministers will overburden the taxpayers. Bishop Njiru said the expectation was that the BBI report would reduce the tax burden but instead increases it. Edited by Henry Makori