Garissa Governor Ali Korane on Tuesday accused an unnamed politician of peddling "pettiness, hatred and malice" against his administration. Speaking during Mashujaa Day celebrations at Garissa Primary School, Korane urged the politician to focus on his mandate and stop planting seeds of discord among residents. Korane said the politician has been setting the wananchi against him and is determined to paint his administration as a failed one instead of engaging in constructive criticism. “As leaders, we need to stop being petty and lead our people in the right direction.  I'm mature enough to know that leadership is a calling from God and I am fully focused on serving residents and fulfilling my election pledges to better their lives,” Korane said. The governor also hit out at Deputy Governor Abdi Dagane, saying he is being misled by some people "who are promising him a non-existent political position". Earlier this month, Dagane warned Korane against attempting to carry out county duties with a pending graft case. The deputy governor said the governor’s actions are not only unconstitutional, but tantamount to violation of his bail terms. Korane has been charged with failing to provide oversight on Sh233 million World Bank grant funds. The county chief also announced that he will be defending his seat in 2022. “I want to publicly announce here today that God willing, my name will be on the ballot in the forthcoming general election. I'm ready to meet my opponents on the ballot. The residents will have the final say on who will lead them,” he said. Korane also issued a seven-day eviction notice to people who have encroached on Ring Road land in Garissa town. The notice, he said, would enable those who have erected illegal structures to demolish them. The governor warned that those who defy the notice will be forcibly removed. "After the expiry of the notice, my administration will also come up with an elaborate programme to plan and allocate land to all deserving cases," Korane said. "We have enough land for everyone seeking land to settle on. The problem is that greedy land speculators are scuttling the process for their selfish gains." Korane said land grabbing in Garissa town and its environs had resulted in bloody conflicts, deaths and destruction of property. Scores have lost their lives following conflicts over land in the area. The latest was last month when two people were killed over ownership of a piece of land in the town. He said despite verbal warnings from both county and national government officials, land grabbing continues unabated. The governor had last year formed a team to look into land issues, but the problem is still rife. Edited by A.N 