Rafa Nadal’s record of 13 French Open singles titles is one of sport’s all-time greatest achievements and one that is unlikely to ever be broken, Andy Murray has said. Spaniard Nadal beat Novak Djokovic 6-0 6-2 7-5 in the Roland Garros final on Sunday to draw level with Roger Federer on 20 Grand Slam titles. “It’s an amazing achievement,” Murray told reporters in Cologne ahead of an ATP 250 event. “I don’t think what (Nadal) has done at Roland Garros will ever be beaten. He’s one short of winning the same amount at just one tournament as Pete Sampras did in Grand Slams. “I think it’s one of the best records in sport, maybe the best. I don’t think it will ever be repeated and I actually don’t think anyone will get close to it.” Of the ‘Big Three’, Murray thought it would be Nadal or Djokovic (17 majors) who would finish their careers with the most Grand Slam titles. “Providing they all stay fit and if they retire all at the same age, then I would think it would be between Rafa and Novak,” he said. Meanwhile, Murray and three others have been elected to ATP’s Player Council to replace the Djokovic-led group who resigned from the body to form a breakaway union, the governing body of men’s tennis has announced. Briton Murray, Canada’s Felix Auger-Aliassime, Australian John Millman and Frenchman Jeremy Chardy will replace Djokovic, John Isner, Vasek Pospisil and Sam Querrey — who stepped down to form the Professional Tennis Players Association (PTPA). Murray joins 20-time Grand Slam champions Federer and Nadal on the council. The ATP was set up by players in 1972 to represent the men’s athletes but its board now includes representatives of tournament owners as well. Besides the ATP and the women’s WTA, the sport is also controlled by the International Tennis Federation and the boards of the four Grand Slams. World number one Djokovic described the PTPA, which he said has already attracted the support of more than 200 players, as a platform for the views of the athletes that can co-exist with the ATP. In response to the formation of the PTPA, the governing bodies had issued a joint statement calling for unity at a time when tennis has been ravaged by the Covid-19 pandemic.