Forty three years after they bought 510 acres in Rongai/Njoro and 32 years since they moved to court over the land ownership, 2,200 members of Jumaa Farmers Company Limited can finally access their land. So protracted has been the case that all the accused persons in the matter have since passed on, thus the criminal proceedings can be resolved. The chief magistrates court in Nakuru has now ordered that the elderly members could apply to the land registrar for issuance of a duplicate title for number LR487/134 (IR8909). So protracted has been the case that the original title deed of the prime land along the Nakuru-Eldoret road was destroyed many years ago, among other court documents. Chief Magistrate Josephat Kalo made the order for the application of a duplicate title after declaring the original title lost. The initial case was filed on January 21, 1988, against Samson Martin Owino Ger, Christopher Kiprotich, Jonathan Some Kipkoech, Thomas Kibet and William Kipserem Busienei, who were charged with stealing by agent. The five were accused that on diverse dates between April 9, 1979, and July 28, 1982, they stole money entrusted to them by Jumaa Farmers Limited for buying the suit land. The seven counts of obtaining money were all committed in Nairobi and Nakuru town. During the hearing of the criminal case, the first accused, Ger, asked to be allowed to have custody of the title, a prayer that was declined by the then Resident Magistrate L. Masinjila. “Since it appears that the matter will eventually be settled either criminally or civilly to resolve the legal ownership of the land in question, the title deed will remain in this court’s custody until the matter is determined,” read the order by Masinjila dated June 23, 1988. It is not clear when the last accused person died or how but after a fruitless search of the title for about three years, Jumaa Farmers Company Limited moved back to court on July 1, 2020, seeking orders to have criminal file 131/1988 constructed for further orders. They sought orders that the title deed be released to them forthwith and if it could not be found in the court’s criminal registry, the Nakuru Land Registrar be compelled and ordered to issue a replacement at the cost of Jumaa. In an affidavit signed by Jumaa secretary Ruth Wanjiru, the company said there was a consent issued on May 29, 1979, issued by Nakuru District Land Control Board and they needed the title deed to execute the consent. “Our members need the title deed to participate in the Nakuru titling programme run by the Ministry of Land, Urban Planning and Settlement,” stated Wanjiru. She added that the titling programme was about to end thus the need for the title deed to enable subdivision and production to individual titles. Speaking after the orders by Kalo yesterday, the officials said they would quickly process the subdivision to allow members benefit from their land. Company director Ezekiel Kironyo said they acquired the land when most of them were young but they were now elderly. Kironyo said some of the members had died before seeing the fruits of their labour.