A Senate bill provides that startups will be recognised, supported and allocated funds in every budget. Financial incentives are not specified in Senate bills. The Startup Bill, 2020, aims to incubate and develop start-ups, address their problems and create jobs. It is sponsored by Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja and its first reading was on Tuesday. The proposed law would provide a legal framework for start-ups and create a more favourable environment for innovation to attract talent and capital. In Kenya, start-ups are yet to be recognised in law though start-ups and innovations have greatly contributed to economic development. “The bill seeks to provide a legislative framework that fosters a culture of innovative thinking and entrepreneurship for registration of startups,” the Bill reads. The Bill would provide linkage of start-ups with financial institutions, private sector research institutions and other such institutions at the national and county levels,. The bill would facilitate investment in and provision of financial and non-financial support. It also calls for regulation of start-ups. The bill creates national and county incubation facilities and provides a registration procedure. The Kenya National Innovation Agency established under Section 28 of the Science, Technology and Innovation Act and county governments would develop incubation programmes. The agency would register start-ups. The Bill creates the Offices of the Registrar of Start-ups; the registrar would be competitively recruited by the Public Service Commission. “The Registrar shall keep an updated database of all registered start-ups and start-ups under review indicating business development stage, ownership, products and services , investment support received, financial needs and target market,” the Bill reads. Kenyan start-ups have grown rapidly in the last decade. Construction of Konza Techno City, 'Silicon Savannah', is expected to improve the start-up environment. Sakaja said that start-ups are generally associated with young innovative tech companies or new businesses that leverage on technology to solve a problem or pinpoint a population segment. “Start-ups focus on solving problems through new technology and cutting-edge innovation,” the senator said. “Due to their unique rapid growth model over a short period of time, start-ups have a high capacity of quality job creation,” he added. He cited Twiga foods and Sendy as among successful start-ups that support more than 40,000 people on their platforms. He cited Cellulant as a start-up that has raised funds successful. It has developed a digital payment platform offering flexible payment options for consumers and businesses. It works with financial institutions, governments and mobile network operators to increase transparency and expand its reach in Africa. Sendy, a logistics platform, started operating before Uber. It provides a platform for partner-drivers to fulfill customers' logistics needs, from motorcycle deliveries to trucks. Twiga foods sources quality produce from thousands of farmers countrywide and delivers to their shops at below-market prices. Vendors can order fresh, high-quality groceries and vegetables. (Edited by V. Graham) 