 The controversial Kitui ballast crusher will start operations in December, two years after it was installed in 2018. The Sh85.3 million Yatta-based plant has been riddled with controversy forcing it to lie in disuse since its installation. The green light to operationalise the crusher at Kwa Kilui area followed a decision by Governor Charity Ngilu to allow locals to have a 49 per cent stake in benefits accrued from the factory. The crusher can produce revenue of up to Sh43 million per month. But works have been in limbo after locals opposed the factory. Led by their MCA John Kisangau, residents blocked the commencement of operations at the facility, demanding ownership rights. The plant is also being investigated by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission over questions raised on how its procurement was carried out. Detectives are looking at claims of nepotism and overpricing in the award of the tender for the crusher. But an agreement at a meeting between Ngilu and the resident community including Kisangau on Friday last week allowed works to start after Ngilu relaxed her insistence that the crusher be fully owned by county government. “The proposed profit share will be at 51 per cent to the county government and 49 per cent to the Lower Yatta Community,” reads resolutions on sharing of benefits. It was also agreed that locals will have between 60 and 70 per cent of the available jobs at the site. The deal was signed by Ngilu, Kisangau, chairman of Lower Yatta Muilti-Purpose Cooperative Society Elijah Kituli and the vice-chairman of Kwa Vonza/Kanyonyoo Marketing Cooperative Society Rodgers Nyamai. The representatives of the community will have a 30 per cent representation on the crusher's management board. The cooperatives would also have an office within the site. It was also agreed that since ballast would be produced through wet crushing, Ngilu’s administration should complete the water supply project to be used by the crusher. It was agreed that the process of relocating residents living near the crusher gets underway. Lower Yatta residents will benefit from selling stones to the crusher and the county government will facilitate the delivery of the stones to the plant. “The county government to train youth and buy machines for the cooperative to start youth empowerment programmes at the crusher site,” the agreement reads. 