A senior police officer in Nyanza is said to be the mastermind of an ethanol smuggling ring at the Kenya-Tanzania border. Corridors learnt that the officer is having a field day in the illegal trade as no one has gathered enough courage to report him to his bosses. He is said to be involved in illegal large-scale importation of ethanol and always drops the names of top cops while threatening his juniors who hesitate to do things his way. He is said to use cargo containers loaded with cereals meant for the Kenyan market to conceal illegal ethanol and evade taxes. Junior officers are said to be contemplating writing an anonymous letter to Inspector General Hillary Mutyambai to expose their boss. A governor from Western who was to vie for a parliamentary seat in the county is rethinking his political strategy. He is said to have developed cold feet after learning that the electorate is bitter with him and may never entrust him with their vote. The governor was convinced that once the BBI is passed, Cabinet ministers will be picked from the House and he could land a ministerial position if he wins a parliamentary seat. However, voters are said to be unhappy that their son has not helped them while at the helm of the county. It remains to be seen if the county boss will drop his ambition altogether or mend fences with the constituents. A top county official in the capital city is said to be behind recent clashes between two rival groups that fought over the management of public toilets in downtown Nairobi. The official is said to be forcing one group to surrender some toilets to their opponents because its members were not willing to part with “something agreeable” to be allowed to operate smoothly. Corridors learnt that the public toilet industry in Nairobi rakes in up to Sh2 million a day, with some amount going to cartels associated with influential city politicians and businessmen. Did President Uhuru Kenyatta pose for a photograph to register for his Huduma Namba for nothing? Or was his registration a publicity stunt? Well, that seems to be the case because when the President was registering for the card as the programme was rolled out in April last year, he was dressed in a white shirt, and had no coat. But when Uhuru showed Kenyans his card on Mashujaa Day, the photograph was different, much to the amusement of many. Some Kenyans have indicated that they are eagerly waiting to see whether the photographs taken of them during registration will be the ones on the cards.