Toyota Kenya has reintroduced multi-utility hatchback model, Toyota Starlet after discontinuing production in the 1990s. The new model with 1.4-litre petrol engine capacity launched Tuesday night will go for Sh1.98 million. The launch comes at a time when the demand for 1000cc to 1600cc vehicles is on the rise with many people looking for affordable and convenient vehicles for everyday use. They are also popular for use in digital taxi-hailing businesses. Toyota Kenya managing director Arvinder Reel described the vehicle as comfortable, reliable, and a safe solution for customers looking for high-economy vehicles with exceptional drivability. "The new Toyota Starlet delivers on this and also has elegant curves and controls that add taste to our customers’ daily errands. It is built to make you feel like a star,” Reel said. It measures 3.9 metres long, with a width of 1.74 metres and a wheelbase of 2. 5 metres. The interior features include ample headroom and legroom with a beautifully vivid instrument cluster with a centre MultiInformation Display (MID). The steering wheel has also been equipped with multifunctional buttons for cruise control; with rear seats are foldable to create more room for packing or carrying things that could not fit in the back seat or boot. The new Starlet comes with the latest technological features such as the smart-entry push button, a reverse-view camera with parking sensors, and a touchscreen infotainment system with Android Auto and Apple Carplay compatibility. It also offers Bluetooth hands-free telephony and audio streaming functions, all of which are linked to strategically placed buttons on the steering wheel enabling you to easily answer and end calls without letting go of the wheel. The spec level has also been amped by the digital speedometer with colour MID, leather steering wheel with telescopic adjustment, climate control, and push-start operation. Reel said that those who buy the new Toyota Starlet will have the advantage of enjoying Toyota’s quality service and low maintenance cost from Toyota’s dedicated and fully-fledged spare-parts and after-sales facilities. The model comes with a three-year/100,000 kilometres manufacturer warranty.