The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has been asked to investigate how the Wajir government spent Sh2 billion from the National Treasury in the 2019-20 financial year. Senator Ali Abdullahi also wants the EACC to investigate if any family member of Governor Mohamed Mohamud has been involved in the running of county affairs on behalf of the executive. Another aspect of the investigation should be whether there was a double payment of some contracts and if companies that never executed any work were paid, leaving out those that should have been paid. The EACC should also probe if there has been splitting of projects and awarding them to different companies to avoid the procurement law. Abdullahi, in particular, wants the devolved unit to show how the Sh199 million it got as a grant from the National Treasury was utilised. He says a summary of the letter requesting for the money indicated that Sh95 million was for roads, transport and public works and Sh104 million for water resources. The senator says the commission should investigate if any of the funds were diverted for personal gain. According to him, 23 of the 24 companies listed as the beneficiaries of Sh104 million for water resources did not receive any payments and that the money was paid to companies not included in the list attached to the request for the funds. He says the anti-graft agency should investigate which companies, out of the 15 listed, got the Sh95 million meant for roads, transportation and public works. The senator has copied his request for investigation to Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji, the Office of the Controller of Budget, the Treasury Principal Secretary, the Office of the Auditor-General and Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti. The EACC has also been asked to investigate the county government in connection with funds provided by Danida through IFMIS to all level 2 and 3 health facilities in Kenya for operations and maintenance since 2014. Danida commissioned Ernst & Young to audit how the funds were spent and Wajir was mentioned among counties that did not give reports. Among the attached documents is a collection of signatures from 15 elected members of the county assembly.  The MCAs want the commission to investigate if tenders had been awarded to companies associated with members of the county executive. “We, the members of the county assembly who represent the interest of the public, do hereby send a signal that Wajir county is on its deathbed,” they wrote. In June, a Nairobi magistrate's court ruled that two Wajir officials had a case to answer over embezzlement of Sh26 million. The court put Ahmed Sahal Omar, Daud Abdullahi, Jeff Kithinji Mworia (all county officers) on their defence. They were in November 2018 charged with conspiring to defraud the county government of Sh26 million. The cash was allegedly withdrawn at KCB branch in Wajir and handed to the governor, who was waiting for it in Nairobi. The governor has refuted the claims and defended himself in court. During the hearing, he told the court that he did not issue any instructions for the withdrawal of Sh25 million that led to three of his county officials prosecuted over graft allegations. Mohamed said he was not aware of a request by the Finance CEC for an overdraft facility of Sh25 million to Kenya Commercial Bank Wajir branch. The request was in form of a letter and the overdraft was for payment of county employees and office expenses at Wajir. Director of Press and Communications Ahmed Hussein has dismissed claims by the senator on the use of funds and accused the senator of engaging in propaganda.  -mwaniki fm