Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago has said he will only back the BBI on  condition it allows increased funding to counties and strengthens devolution. He said that although his second term as governor ends in 2022, he will not support the proposal to create regional governments in addition to the counties. “Even though we may support the BBI process, it should not be used to overburden Kenyans with the proposed creation of regional governments,” Mandago said on Friday. He said second term governors like him should prepare to retire in 2022 instead of angling for the creation of regional governments so that they can get positions in the proposed third tier. “We were elected knowing very well that we had to serve two terms and retire. Unless that is reversed through the BBI, we should go home or vie for the presidency,” Mandago said. He said counties should be retained and strengthened downwards so that Kenyans can easily access services and public resources. “We should be planning how to take resources to the villages and not create other layers of devolution to return us to where we were,” Mandago said. He was speaking at Kawuor village in Kendu Bay, Homa Bay county, during the interment of Klaris Ombok who was the mother of Huruma ward administrator Eric Ombok. Mandago said counties must be strengthened by giving more resources to the regions. "Devolution should be a priority in the BBI. The funds allocated to counties are less than what we should get. We can’t do enough because we don’t have the money,” he said. Mandago repeated his call on residents of Nyanza to work with or support other leaders other than ODM leader Raila Odinga. He said Deputy President William Ruto supported Raila in 2007 and the ODM leader should reciprocate by supporting the DP in 2022. The county chief, however, noted that regardless of the political differences among Kenyans, the country must always maintain peace and unity for prosperity. County secretary Edwin Bett, Devolution executive Barnabas Tarus and chief of staff Joseph Tanui were in attendance.    