Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi wants the Building Bridges Initiative Secretariat to abolish presidential elections. Murungi on Monday proposed that presidential elections are eliminated and instead governors, MPs, MCAs and senators should pick the president to enhance peace and stability. “The president's seat has become a matter of life and death because people associate it with massive resources and job opportunities for the ruling community," he said. "Every leader wants to cheat the other. They form tribal coalitions, some demanding regional secession. We must make bold decisions and stop presidential elections," he said. To reduce political tensions, Kiraitu proposed 45 per cent funds allocation to counties with the money channelled to ward level. He and others were speaking at a BBi Meru leaders meeting on Monday. Igembe South MP John Paul Mwirigi said the BBI should address youth unemployment by making it compulsory for firms to reserve 20 per cent of jobs for the youth without work experience. He said the government should also set aside some cash to pay unemployed graduates for at least two years before they get jobs. Mwirigi said county allocations should be factored in depending on the population. “One man-one vote-one shilling rule must be the first priority,” he said. North Imenti MP Rahim Dawood proposed all elected and nominated leaders serve without salaries because they are public servants. “If you cannot serve without pay, don’t vie. I propose the removal of many unnecessary commissions and the reduction of commissioners. In India with 1.3 billion people, the electoral commission is constituted by only three commissioners,” Dawood said. Tigania West MP John Mutunga said the only way to improve Kenya's economy is the firm implementation of devolution and increase of the agriculture's allocation t0 15 per cent. “Seven per cent must go to farmer’s training, five per cent to financing SMEs and the final three per cent to push for youth employment and empowerment,” he said. South Imenti MP Kathuri Murungi proposed a compulsory one to two years paid internship programme for fresh graduate certificate to degree holders. He also wants corruption cases to be concluded within six months. Kubai Kiringo of Igembe Central urged the BBI secretariat to include salaries to graduates. Kirima Nguchine of Imenti Central said BBI should do away with replication of administrative roles through the scrapping of subcounty and ward administrators and county commissioners. (Edited by V. Graham)    