ODM leader Raila Odinga has kicked off the Building Bridges Initiative campaigns, telling Kenyans it is a matter of days before the document is unveiled. Raila on Sunday addressed a number of rallies in Nairobi where he drummed up support for the document, which he noted is a permanent solution to most challenges facing Kenyans. He termed the initiative the third and final liberation for the country. The ODM chief first addressed Christians at United Ministries Church in Kawangware before holding meet-the-people tours in Dagoretti North Constituency. From Kawangware, he proceeded to Kibra where he addressed a Kamkunji. Raila said that soon he and President Uhuru Kenyatta will receive the document and make its content public to Kenyans. "The second report is ready and within a few days we will make it public," Raila said. He hit out at Deputy President William Ruto, accusing him of being part of the problem and should not use tokenism to hoodwink Kenyans. Likening Ruto to a hyena who cannot be left to be in charge of a flock of sheep, the former Prime Minister said BBI holds the solution to problems facing the youths like unemployment. “Fisi inaweza okoa mbuzi? Fisi ndio huyu anakuja na wheelbarrow na mkokoteni (Can a hyena save a goat? This is the hyena that is coming with a wheelbarrow and carts),” Raila told supporters in apparent reference to Ruto's initiatives to support jobless young people. “We want to bring a permanent solution to the people of this country. We are not bring wheelbarrows.” Raila wondered how Ruto’s seven years in government had helped in improving the lives of Kenyans, saying his new brand of tokenism was an insult to Kenyans. He said the items dished out by the DP were cheap and could not offer lasting solutions to unemployment, which is the major challenge facing the youths.. The ODM leader said Kenyans should wait for the BBI, which, he noted, held the solution to most of the problems facing the country. He said that the unity pact with President Uhuru would bring new hope to Kenyans and leave the country united. Raila was accompanied by MPs Simba Arati (Dagoretti North), Maina Kamanada (nominated), George Aladwa (Makadara), Denitta Agati (nominated), Elisha Odhiambo (Gem), Mpuri Aburi (EALA), Getrude Musuruve (nominated senator) and Justus Kizito ( Shinyalu). Raila’s daughter Rosemary Odinga, former Nairobi Speaker Alex Ole Magelo, ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna, politicians Francis Mwangi, Reuben Ndolo and Stanley Livondo accompanied him too. Kamanda said the BBI team will form the next government, adding that they will soon start their BBI rallies in Nairobi to popularise the initiative. He said the country should prepare for Raila’s presidency. He laughed off claims of Ruto’s penetration of the Mt Kenya region, saying the area is still under the grip of President Uhuru Kenyatta who is the region’s kingpin. “The day you (Raila) will come and Uhuru and have two meetings in Mt Kenya that will be the end of politics in the region,” Kamanda said. Edited by Henry Makori