Learners living with disability may have trouble adjusting to wearing masks at school. Those on wheelchairs and the visually impaired may be unable to maintain social distance as they could need personal aid to move about, a researcher has said. And persons with autism and intellectual disability might not understand the need to wear masks, while those with emotional disturbance may refuse to observe the containment measures. For that reason, learners living with disability could be at a higher risk of contracting Covid-19, according to the Ulemavu Research Institute. “ Learners with disability face a greater risk of infections for a range of reasons including physical health problems, social circumstances and slowness to grasp the learning content more so those with autism or intellectual disability,” Margaret Njiru, head of research at Ulemavu, said. The institute has called on schools to observe high standards of safety precautions against Covid-19 to protect learners living with disability. It urged schools to attend to the emotional needs of the learners to ensure seamless learning. According to Ulemavu, those with disability may have increased trauma during this Covid-19 season. “In addition, learners with disability may be in need of specialised travel services and some families may not afford increased costs of travel to school thus the need to have affordable transport services for such learners,” Njiru said. Considering the need for frequent disinfection of features such as handrails and accessibility doorknobs reserved for learners with disability, the institute has urged institutions to provide sanitiser for learners who may be in need of take-home disinfectants. “Learners with disability who rely heavily on classroom support learning aids which may not be available at home during school closure are likely to have missed a lot on learning. Thus, there is a need for a more welcoming and friendly learning environment,” the institute said. Following a directive by the Ministry of Education, Grade 4, Class 8 and Form 4 students reported to school on October 12 after staying at home since March. Edited by Henry Makori