Former Tiaty MP Asman Kamama has blamed Kanu for his loss of a state job – for the third time – after he was axed from the National Social Security Fund board Thursday. Kamama has also lost jobs at the Rift Valley Water Services Board and the North Rift Water Services Board. The former lawmaker accused Kanu of frustrating people from Rift Valley who are serving in government. “The people fighting me are William Kamket (MP Tiaty) and Kanu leadership. They have ensured that I do not serve in any position in this government,” Kamama told the Star on Friday. The former chair of Parliament’s National Security committee unsuccessfully defended his parliamentary seat on a Jubilee Party ticket in 2017. His appointment by Labour Cabinet Secretary Simon Chelugui last week to the NSSF was revoked through a special gazette notice. The Star has established that the revocation of Kamama's appointment was done by the Office of the President. Attempts to get a comment from Chelugui were not successful as he was attending the Cabinet retreat in Manyani, Taita Taveta. The former legislator who is perceived to have a soft spot for Deputy President William Ruto — Baringo Senator Gideon Moi’s rival — said he is no longer interested in seeking a state job. He said he has booked an appointment with the President to find out what his crime is. Kamama said he wants to be accompanied by all the leaders from West Pokot, with Governor John Lonyangapuo at the helm to visit Uhuru. “I am not interested in a fourth position. Kanu leadership will lobby for my removal again. I just want the President to tell me where I went wrong. I am not in Tangatanga or Kielewke as I am not interested in partisan politics that divide this country,” he said. He added, “Kanu is currently superintending the affairs of Kalenjins in this government and it is doing so negatively. The leadership is on a witch-hunt against perceived enemies.” Kamama said during his tenure as the chairman of the influential House committee between 2013 and 2017, he ensured the government agenda was passed. “I served the Jubilee government and the people of Kenya with dedication and with diligence. I have a track record of being one of the best chairmen of that committee,” he said. Kamket is a close ally and confidant of Gideon who is said to have the ear of the President. Gideon, the son of ex-President the late Daniel Moi has been a major beneficiary of recent appointments to various government positions. His hand is said to have influenced the nomination of former IEBC director of voter education Immaculate Kassait as data commissioner. 