A parliamentary oversight committee has summed Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya to appear before it over the Miwani Sugar Company land. The Committee on Agriculture wants Munya on Wednesday to explain the circumstances under which 10,000 acres leased to Miwani Sugar Company in Kisumu county was sold to Crossley Company Limited in December 2007. Nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi further wants the CS to give details on whether the alleged sale was done lawfully. He also wants Munya to consider taking back the land for use by farmers in line with the anticipated Special Economic Zones in the country. Nyando sugarbelt farmers want to be included in the case Crossley Holdings Limited has filed in the Environment and Land Court, claiming Miwani's 11,000-acre LR.7545/3(i.r No.2103 It has named the CS as the first respondent, the Agriculture and Food Authority as the second, the Kisumu government as the third and the Attorney General as the fourth. Kenya Sugarcane Growers Association secretary-general Richard Ogendo said it was malicious for the Miwani land to be targeted at a time it is about to be leased. “We are surprised that the same company has come back again to claim the nuclear estate of the company on cases which had been decided up to the Court of Appeal,” Ogendo said. According to him, said the Miwani land belongs to Kabar, Kamagaga, Sidho and Aldai communities and they should have a say as they are yet to benefit after giving it to the government to build the factory. “We want to state that this is community land and we will be going to court to put up a preliminary objection because we believe this matter had been decided," Ogendo said. Activist Charles Attyang said they have never enjoyed the fruits of the land for the entire duration the company was in operation. Attyang appealed to Chief Justice David Maraga to ensure the Supreme Court ruling is adhered to. Suit papers by Crossley say the land has never been the property of Miwani Sugar Company (1989) Ltd, nor has ownership been charged in favour of the Kenya Sugar Board, Kenya Sugar Authority, Delphis Bank Limited, the government or any other respondent. Crossley wants an order of possession enforceable against every respondent, including their agents, representatives and those purporting to work for or represent Miwani. “We, therefore, want a permanent injunction prohibiting each and all the respondents together with their agents, officers, workers, servants and representatives from interfering with the petitioners' ownership, possession and title to the land, at the same time stopping them from selling or leasing the land,” the court documents state. Crossley wants an order of general damages for loss of income and use of land, including Sh6 billion special damages for loss of income for the cultivation and production of sugarcane. Alternatively, it wants a refund of of Sh4.6 billion it used to purchase the land. The company and eight others were charged with conspiracy to defraud the parastatal of the land at Kisumu chief magistrate's court. Sukhwinder Chatte, Ian Maina, Philip Odongo, Epanaito Okoyo and Crossley Holdings Limited were acquitted for lack of evidence, but co-accused Adulakadir Elkindy, a former magistrate and Moses Osewe were found to have a case to answer. The court found that Elkindy and Osewe conspired to defraud  Miwani of 9,394 acres between May 21, 2007, and January 30, 2008. The DPP appealed the acquittal of the five and in October 2019, the High Court in Nairobi allowed the appeal and ruled that all the accused persons be put on their defence. The accused also appealed against the High Court decision.  - mwaniki fm