Telkom has revamped mobile voice bundles. In a statement released on Tuesday, Telkom said the Pawa voice bundles come with added value packs including SMS and mobile Internet Data at competitive price points. "The voice bundle revamp builds onto Telkom’s strong, consumer-centric ethos, with the telco committed to providing innovative, accessible and refreshingly simple solutions that address the customers’ everyday communication needs," it said. Data from the Communications Authority for the quarter ending June, 2020, for the financial year 2019/2020, shows that Telkom’s outgoing voice traffic rose from 486.7 million minutes, posted in the previous quarter, to 524.2 million minutes in that quarter ending June, 2020. “It is worth noting that SMS and WhatsApp communication are popular among the young audiences who have been actively at home following the prolonged closure of educational institutions due to the current pandemic," Telkom Director, Marketing, Eric Achola said. He added that many consumers are now making more voice calls as they reach out to their family, friends and colleagues. Subscribers can sign up for the Pawa voice bundles by dialing *544#. One will be allowed to buy another bundle before the existing bundle expires, which will see a cumulative increase to their SMS, data and minutes. Recently, Telkom launched the Kaduda 4G device - a series of smart feature phones retailing at accessible price points, enabling more of its customers to have access to additional features and applications not seen in previous Kaduda feature phones released to the market by the company. Meanwhile, Safaricom is offering its customers one free call of up to 20 minutes within the next 30 days starting tomorrow as the telco giant marks 20 years since it was launched. In a statement to the press on Tuesday, CEO Peter Ndegwa said it will send its customers notification to alert them of their free calls. For the next 30 days, a promotion dubbed 20@20 will enable customers to purchase 20 minutes of call time and 20MBs at Sh20. Both offers are available on USSD *444# under the ‘Buy Minutes’ option.