County cash crisis will be a thing of the past if Kenyans vote to adopt the Building Bridges Initiative report, which proposes to increase the minimum share of revenue to 35 per cent. The counties have been receiving a minimum of 15 per cent of the most-recent audited revenue accounts of the national government. The BBI seeks to peg the allocations on the recent audited accounts of the revenue submitted by the Auditor General in the event the National Assembly has not approved the most recent audited revenue accounts. The Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020, also seeks to set the timelines to end the uncertainties that come with delays in the passage of the Division of Revenue Bill and County Allocation of Revenue Bill. In this regard, DoRB will be introduced in the National Assembly four months before the end of each financial year. The legislation will be enacted not later than April 30. The BBI report proposes that MPs will have 21 days to consider the DoRB from the date of its publication. The National Assembly speaker would have to communicate the Bill on its passage to the Senate in seven days after which the latter will dispense of it in 21 days. Once returned to the National Assembly, MPs will have to consider it in 14 days. If the Senate rejects the same, a mediation committee will take it up. In case the Division of Revenue Act is not enacted, the Controller of Budget will be required to authorise the disbursement of up to 50 per cent of the minimum share. Counties started receiving their share of the Sh316.5 allocated this financial year this week following a prolonged Senate deadlock on the revenue sharing formula. The County Allocation of Revenue Bill, as per the BBI proposals, will be enacted within 30 days of the passage of DoRB. Any amendment by the National Assembly to County Allocation of Revenue Bill can be vetoed by a majority of senators. BBI also seeks to establish a Ward Development Fund for every county, thus devolving monies further to the 1,450 wards. “There shall be paid into the ward fund in each financial year at least five per cent of all the county government's revenue in each financial year,” the Constitution Amendment Bill, 2020, reads. The money will be strictly for development that falls within the functions of the county government within the wards. Parliament will be required to pass laws providing the criteria for disbursement of funds to each ward, public participation and identification of projects. BBI is further entrenching the law to give governors powers the hiring and firing of county executive committee members. “The county governor may reassign or dismiss a member of the county executive committee,” the proposal reads. Governors will also be required to assign deputy governors as County Executive Committee members in the proposed amendment to the County Governments Act, 2012. The National Treasury may also draw supplementary budgets to allocate monies that were part of the national government’s equitable share of revenue as determined by DoRA of that financial year. The Finance minister will be required to table in Parliament a report on the stoppage of transfer of funds to government agencies, counties included. In a win for the electorate, it will be possible to recall an MCA either through a party-initiated process or by the electorate. For gender parity in counties, a candidate for election as governor will consider a person of the opposite gender. The BBI process revealed that devolution is still accosted by obstacles such as wastage of resources and theft, divergent views on the revenue allocation formula, and spending that has failed to trickle down to the grassroots. The others are poor planning, misdirected priorities, inadequate capacity to implement budgets and ineffective oversight mechanisms.  - mwaniki fm