Ukambani politicians allied to Deputy President William Ruto will reject the Building Bridges Initiative report if their proposals are not taken into account. Led by former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama, the leaders on Wednesday argued that the document has many gaps and should be amended to accommodate their proposals before a referendum. "If the BBI proposals are not corrected according to the wishes of Kenyans, tutaitupa dirishani mpaka nje (we'll throw it off)," Muthama said. The DP allies gathered at Muthama's home in Mua Hills. Also in attendance were 200 professionals from the eight subcounties of Machakos county. Machakos Town MP Victor Munyaka said negative and positive aspects of the report must be explored so it does not hurt the economy. He urged the BBI committee to conduct a financial and economic analysis, saying the economy has been deteriorating for the last seven years, hence "Kenyans need no more burden". "It is important that we do an economic analysis of how Kenyans are going to suffer because of this innovation of the BBI so we don't bring another costly venture," Munyaka said. He said the BBI will increase the cost of essential commodities if the additional positions of Prime Minister and his two deputies, among other posts, will be approved. "We are going to reject the BBI. The addition of the Prime Minister, the two deputy prime ministers, Members of Parliament and other senators to make it 94 will burden Kenyans with a high cost of living," he said. Munyaka who is serving his third term as a legislator argued that the report had nothing to offer Kenyans rather than false and unachievable promises. Kitui East MP Nimrod Mbai supported Munyaka's sentiments, noting that the proposals, if not amended, will hurt the freedom and independence of the Judiciary and compromise the police service. "The BBI has a lot of things to be amended before we can think of accepting it. We will not allow the big political parties to be the ones to appoint commissioners to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission because that will belittle the efforts of the young and upcoming political parties that cannot appoint their own," Mbai said. He said the BBI committee should first sit and reach a consensus with Kenyans and rectify the proposals or the report will be rejected. Mwala MP Vincent Musyoka appealed to Kenyans not to take chances, saying the BBI proposals had many unexplained gaps that need to be addressed. He questioned why the government has not created more jobs for youths as it had promised in the Big Four agenda. "There is a proposal in the BBI report that there is going to be an increase in funding to the counties with 35 per cent. Now my only question is: What stops the government now from increasing the funds? What really stops you from implementing this proposal because the current Constitution says there is a minimum of 15 per cent allocation and does not say it's the maximum," Musyoka said. 