 Health experts have warned of a renewed risk of an outbreak of polio, especially in Northern Kenya, Nairobi and Mombasa. According to risk analysis, about 11 counties have been flagged as having the greatest risk of polio outbreaks. They include Mombasa, Nairobi, Lamu, Tana River, Garissa, Wajir, Marsabit, Kilifi, Turkana, Isiolo and Mandera. Hillary Limo, the National Disease Surveillance Officer at the Ministry of Health said apart from polio, lack of vaccination also exposes children to the risk of other infectious diseases such as measles and tuberculosis. He said the generally low immunity in children constantly exposes them to many opportunistic infections. He spoke during a joint polio immunisation exercise between Rotary Kenya and Gertrude’s Children’s Hospital at Githogoro slums in Nairobi. The event was part of activities organised to celebrate the World Polio Day. “The Ministry will intensify surveillance activities to detect any possible outbreaks and will continue to collaborate with like-minded institutions to conduct countrywide polio vaccination campaigns to help boost child immunity against the virus. The campaign targets children under the age of five," Limo said. The situation has been compounded by the detection of cVDPV2 in neighbouring Sudan, with the first case reported in the west of the country, bordering the Central African Republic and the second case in the east, near the border with Eritrea and Ethiopia. Both cases concerned children under four years. The disease, which causes disability, has no cure but can be prevented through the administration of a simple and effective vaccine. The virus spreads from one person to another, typically through contaminated water. Kenya reported the last case of polio in 1984. According to the World Health Organization, Pakistan and Afghanistan are the only two countries reporting wild poliovirus cases in the world. A country is considered to be polio-free by WHO if it goes 12 months without a case or a positive environmental sample. Scientists have recommended that even though wild polio is eradicated in Africa, vaccination must continue for at least three years. Dr. Robert Nyarango, Getrude’s Children’s Hospital CEO said the increase of cVDPV in the region can be addressed by ensuring 100 per cent immunisation for all children and enhancing water, sanitation and hygiene in high-risk populations. “Encouragingly, polio vaccines are among the most easily accessible vaccines in Kenya. One is given oral polio vaccine (OPV) at birth, 6 weeks, 10 weeks and 14 weeks along with an injectable. They are given at all hospitals (public, faith-based and private) and at times supplemental immunisation activities such as door-to-door campaigns done regularly by the Ministry of Health,” Nyarango said. He said they will continue partnering with the government and other like-minded organisations in scaling the efforts towards a renewed campaign to ensure many deserving children access immunisation. “While the Covid-19 pandemic has shifted the discussion away from polio, we want to continue creating the awareness that now more than ever before, mothers and caregivers must keep the momentum going. We also want to continue preaching the message that our hospitals are safe to visit for our mothers and children,” he said. Dr. Josephine Ojiambo, the Rotary Kenya health focal point officer said this build-up of under-immunised children has previously contributed to outbreaks of polio. Rotary has been working with governments around the world to eradicate polio for more than 35 years. “Most of these children come from poor families, the urban informal settlements, and the hard-to-reach parts of the country, particularly arid and semi-arid  regions where access to health services is limited, " Ojiambo said. She said missing the polio vaccine places children at high risk for more problems in the future. Vaccines are the best way to keep children protected and healthy, she said.  Edited by P.O