The weather department has explained why the short rains will disappoint in most parts of Kenya this year. Stella Aura, head of the Meteorological Department, said the country is experiencing the effects of La Nina. "This phenomenon is associated with below average rainfall over Kenya," she said. A natural cooling of certain parts of the equatorial Pacific ocean, La Nina sets in motion a series of changes to the world's weather that can last months, even years.  For East Africa, it is often associated with drought. Experts say the current phase of La Nina could last until March next year, but the good news is that is expected to remain weak to moderate. The World Food Programme says this could lead to food insecurity in East Africa in 2021. "Indicative preliminary forecasts and historical data raise the possibility of drier than average conditions for the Long Rains season of March-May 2021," WFP said in a statement on September 24. "If realized, very considerable impacts on the food security of already vulnerable populations can be expected throughout 2021." The Ministry of Agriculture has already advised farmers to plant fast growing crops during the short rains season. In her statement, Aura says the short rains, which traditionally begin this month,  will come properly in November is most places, and will be poor. "The October 2020 rainfall is expected to be poorly distributed, both in time and space," she said in a monthly forecast for October. However, the forecast indicates some parts of the Highlands West of the Rift Valley, the Lake Victoria Basin, the Southern and Central Rift Valley and North-western Kenya are likely to experience near-average rainfall with a tendency to above-average. The rain has already began in this region and will continue until December. It will fall anytime this month in the central highlands, which include Nairobi, Meru, Embu, Nyeri, Murang’a, Kiambu, Tharaka Nithi,Kirinyaga, and Nyandarua. "They  will experience occasional rainfall during the first and second week of October," Aura said. "The rainfall is expected to break for two weeks and resume during the first to second week of November." The onset in the southern parts (Narok, Kajiado) is likely to occur in the fourth week of October to first week of November. The southeastern lowlands (Taita Taveta, Machakos, Kitui, Makueni, and Tana River counties) are likely to realise the onset during the first to second week of November. Aura said at the Coastal Strip rains will come during the fourth week of October to first week of November. "Occasional rainfall is however expected during the second week of October," she said. Edited by EKibii