National Cohesion and Integration Commission has condemned the violence that erupted at Kenol in Murang’a. The chaos that erupted moments before the arrival of Deputy President William Ruto for a church service led to the loss of two people. The violence, which pitted pro-Tangatanga and pro-Kieleweke youth against each other, led to the loss of two lives. Speaking at the Whitesands Hotel in Mombasa, the commission chair Samuel Kobia expressed outrage at the rising political temperatures in the country. Kobia noted there has been hatred, bigotry and political rhetoric that is slowly degenerating into violence over the past few months in the country. “The attacks and counter-attacks have created space for threats of violence to emerge,” said Kobia. The commission is in Mombasa to develop a road map to the 2022 general elections for the commission. Speaking at the Whitesands Hotel, Kobia warned that the hustlers-dynasty dichotomy mirrored the narrative that preceded the Rwanda genocide. “We are sickened by the blatant manifestations of hatred and intolerance, including by public figures. It is unfortunate that this is happening in the midst of a pandemic that has wreaked havoc on the lives and livelihoods of millions of Kenyans,” Kobia said. Meanwhile, the Inspector-General of Police Hillary Mutyambai has ordered the arrest of Mmurang'a Woman Rep Sabina Chege, Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro, and Kandara MP Alice Wahome. The IG said the three legislators have involved in the incident. He urged politicians to desist from engaging in inciting utterances and acts that might lead to violence. "Stern action will be taken against any person engaging in, planning and executing unlawful acts," Mutyambai said. Ruto allies vowed to continue clinching to his side. "I feel very embarrassed to be a Kenyan and an MP of Jubilee Party," Nyoro said. Ruto said Jubilee insiders are behind the chaos. "Watu waliotuma watu kutuma teagas ni watu wanaofanya kazi chini yetu. (Those who sent these goons to unleash teargas on us were sent by leaders working under us.)," he said. "The Jubilee administration is a product of kneeling and prayer before many alters in Kenya. It can not be the same administration that is now going to teargas the church and disgrace our alters in Kenya," he said. In Mombasa, the NCIC said the proliferation of criminal and organized groups must be arrested before it gets out of hand. “We not only call upon security forces to arrest and persecute the perpetrators, but would also like to remind Kenyans and politicians in general that this country has deep reverence for the Constitution and the rule of Law. “Non-violence is fundamental to that right. We use the sad event in Murang’a to county to reaffirm the need to respect divergent views, and to remember the values of peace, national ethos, and cohesion that represent the people of Kenya,.