Interior CS Fred Matiang'i has instructed the top security heads in the country to facilitate the implementation of the Building Bridges Initiative. The CS also warned police against being misused by politicians during the ongoing countrywide BBI debate. "We support the BBI but in the field, we will facilitate political leaders as they discuss the matter...It is not us to lead the debate...the leaders will lead the debate," Matiang'i said. "For us in the security sector, we support the President and his stand on the debate on the BBI report." Matiangi spoke on Friday when he officially closed a two-day workshop for Regional and County Commissioners at the KICC. The BBI launch took place on Monday coupled with heckles, laughter, fun and criticism in a colourful event at the Bomas of Kenya. The event which brought nearly all leaders from the political divide together was a showdown as each leader who spoke representing groups supported or wanted an improvement on the report. Deputy President William Ruto picked holes in the report, casting doubt on the rationale for five key proposals on the Executive, the Judiciary and police service. The pro-BBI forces have identified appointment of electoral commissioners, disbandment of the National Police Service Commission and the Senate's roles as some of the sticking issues. The appointment of the Judiciary Ombudsman, whether elected women representatives should remain in the National Assembly and dealing with bigger constituencies that will miss out on an extra MP are other thorny issues. Ironically, the expansion of the Executive, which is one of the contentious issues raised by DP William Ruto on Monday at Bomas is not listed among thorny issues to be discussed in Naivasha. Allies of Ruto are claiming they have been left out of a key BBI meeting to be presided over by President Uhuru Kenyatta in Naivasha this Sunday. The 'invite-only' retreat could hinder efforts to build consensus on the Building Bridges Initiative report. The meeting to be attended by ODM leader Raila Odinga, will include at least 250 MPs out of the 416 lawmakers and is aimed at thrashing out at least six contentious issues.