Elgeyo Marakwet leaders have welcomed President Uhuru Kenyatta’s appointment of Lindsay Kiptines to be Kenya's ambassador to Bangkok, Thailand. Kiptines is a resident of Marakwet East and he is the second person from the area to be appointed an envoy. Robert Kipkoror was the ambassador to several countries during former President Moi’s regime. Until his appointment, Kiptines, a career civil servant, was the Director of Asia, Australasia and the Pacific Islands and the ordinator of the Covid-19 Response at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He has been a public servant for 27 years. “On behalf of the great people of my county, I appreciate President Kenyatta for appointing Kiptines to the position of envoy," Governor Alex Tolgos said. Deputy Governor Wesley Kiptoo also welcomed the appointment. “Residents of this county are proud one of us has been rewarded for his distinguished work for this country. We thank the President," Kiptoo said. Residents led by Jane Kiptarus and Bowen Joseph said the appointment was a blessing after Senator Kipchumba Murkomen was stripped of his position as Majority leader in the Senate due his ties to DP William Ruto. Born to peasant farmers in Kartur village, Marakwet East, Kiptines is the youngest in a family of 12. He joined the public service as a secondary school teacher in 1993, teaching history and geography at Sergoit High School, in Keiyo district. He moved to the provincial administration as District Officer (D.O. III) in Archer's Post, Samburu. He later served in Kirisia, Baragoi, Mogotio, Kericho, Nakuru, Bungoma, Vihiga and Kakamega where he attained the rank of DO1. Kiptines moved to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, serving at headquarters and foreign missions abroad for 17 years. He played an important role in the successful implementation of the Sudan Comprehensive Peace Agreement and the Somali peace process while serving at the Kenya Embassy in Khartoum. He later served at headquarters, working as the Desk officer for IGAD. (Edited by V. Graham)  