Fast-rising Gor Mahia teenage sensation Benson Omala says he will strike a fair balance between the remaining bit of his High School studies and the major football assignments ahead of him. The rookie, who returned to Kisumu on Sunday to resume his studies,  is at crossroads following his inclusion in the 40-man Harambee Stars provisional squad set to prepare for the Africa Cup of Nations qualifier double against Comoros next month. Additionally, the national U-20 Rising Stars striker, who is a Form 4 student at the Kisumu Day High School, is apparently in the plans of  new Gor head coach Roberto Oliveira who is fine-tuning the players ahead of the new season. Oliveira watched the former Western Stima striker train for three days last week and bag an hat-trick in a friendly match against Naivasha Combined which ended 6-3 in favour of the record champions last Saturday. According to Football Kenya Federation, all the local-based players summoned by coach Jacob 'Ghost' Mulee for the qualifiers are scheduled to report to a non-residential training camp tomorrow, a move which is likely to lock out the forward for the second time. Omala failed to report to camp when former Stars coach Francis Kimanzi handed him his maiden call up to the senior team early this month for the international friendly against Zambia. Despite the football commitments, which lie in wait for the youngster, Omala is counting on the advice and support from his family and friends to help him balance them with studies. "I left the Gor camp on Sunday and travelled back to Kisumu to resume studies. Even though I haven't heard from the national team regarding my inclusion in the provisional squad, I will find a way of handling it when it comes and ensure it doesn't affect my studies. The Gor coach confided in me last Saturday of his plan to use me in the league matches.He also wants me in Caf matches if I will be registered," he revealed. He added: "With the help of my family and other advisors, I am sure I will juggle between the two. I will sacrifice where necessary just to ensure I don't miss crucial lessons," he said As he embarks on final lap to the rescheduled KSCE exams, Omala hopes  to consolidate the personal training regime handed by Gor technical bench while working with his former clubs Manyatta United and Griffins FC while in school. "Gor have given me a personal training regime which I will be following while in school. I will also be passing by my former teams Manyatta United and Griffins FC just to boost my fitness levels.I have been revising online for the time schools have been closed and  I feel I am ready for exams.