Residents of Ndeiya ward in Limuru have expressed fears of fresh attacks by cattle rustlers. They claim rustlers are now targeting sheep, adding that more than 100 sheep have been stolen. Their concern comes two months after leaders from Kiambu and Kajiado counties met at the Bomas of Kenya and brokered a peace deal to end cattle theft. Limuru MP Peter Mwathi said the latest incident was on Tuesday night, when rustlers invaded homes in Kiriri village and stole 30 sheep, resulting in an attack that left three people injured. He said Kiriri, Ndiuni and Nguirubi are the most affected village, where residents were spending sleepless nights as they keep watch on their livestock. “This incident speaks a lot and loud and it should not be disregarded,” said Mwathi. The MP chairs the National Assembly's Departmental Committee on Labour and Social Welfare. Mwathi said villagers feel the attacks might escalate following the withdrawal of Anti-Stock Theft Police Unit officers after Education CS George Magoha asked teachers to report back to school. “Among the issues we agreed on at Bomas on August 11 was housing the Anti-Stock Theft Police at Kiriri Primary School. But in preparation for teachers to report back to school on Monday, the officers were withdrawn last week,” he said. Former Ndeiya MCA Nelson Munga said the government has not been serious as it was agreed that both Kajiado and Kiambu would mark their boundaries so that whoever crosses with flocks of sheep or herd of cattle can be questioned by the police, chief or an assistant chief from either county. Munga said regional coordinators Wilson Nyagwanga (Central) and George Natembeya (Rift Valley) have failed to lead the exercise as agreed. Current MCA Gideon Gachara, who is also the Kiambu assembly Majority leader, said residents are living in fear and might be overwhelmed by feelings of revenge. He said he will table a petition to compel the government to hold meetings in the area and lay strategies of bringing a lasting solution to the cattle rustling. “We do not want to hear of cattle rustling here any longer,” Gachara said. Gachara said that within six months before the Bomas meeting, about 120 cows, 600 sheep and 60 donkeys were stolen. 