Kenya on Sunday recorded 388 new cases of Covid-19, bringing the total number of infections to 41,546. This is out of a sample size of 4,287 tested in the last 24 hours, bringing the cumulative tests now to 591,198. Of the cases, 383 are Kenyans and five are foreigners. The youngest is a four-year old infant while the oldest is 85. When it comes to recoveries, the country has recorded 61 recoveries bringing the total number of recoveries to 31,000. 23 of the cases are from the Home Based Care program while 40 are from different health facilities. Unfortunately, the country has lost six patients to the virus, bringing the total number of fatalities to 766. Distribution of the cases by counties is as follows; Nakuru 86, Nairobi 84, Mombasa 51, Trans Nzoia 49, Kiambu 29, Kisumu 17, Kericho 11. Meru and Busia have 10 cases each, Bungoma eight, Machakos seven, Garissa five, Kajiado, Tharaka Nithi and Nyamira three cases each, Nyeri, Siaya, Makueni, Nandi, Kwale and Nyandarua two cases each. Separately, in Kilifi, where cases have been rising the county government is set to begin a major crackdown against people defying Covid 19 protocols. Kilifi county Covid-19 committee, chaired by governor Amason Kingi together with the county commissioner Kutswa Olaka, ordered the security personnel to begin enforcing the rules so as to prevent a resurgence of the cases of Covid-19 in the county. The resolution was reached after a security meeting between the governor, his cabinet and the security committee that is chaired by the county commissioner who is new in the county. Addressing journalists after the meeting, Kingi said it has come to his attention that people have now begun ignoring the protocol and live normally despite the fact that the pandemic is still in place. The governor said people do not observe social distancing rules and are no longer wearing masks which put them at a high risk of contacting the deadly virus. In the recent cases, Kilifi county recorded eight Covid-19 positive cases with majority coming from Magarini sub county which was alarming. Kingi said matatus and passenger service vehicles have also stopped following the protocols and are carrying excess passengers which was risky. Further he said funeral services have also resumed the normal burial organizations that bring together hundreds of people which is against the protocols. The directive will see security personnel together with the county inspectorate implement the orders to ensure the rules are adhered to. "Our duty is to ensure the rules are followed and any matatus found defying the protocols shall face the full force of the law," he said. The directives he said shall be effected also in restaurants which do not follow the rules.