How far are some insiders in government willing to go in their bid to stop Deputy President William Ruto (pictured)? Even to the extent of fraying relations with diplomatic missions? Well, a senior government official recently called the head of a well-respected foreign mission to stop the ambassador from hosting the DP. The official did not give reasons for official discomfort with the meeting, to the shock of diplomats. Foreign envoys are keen for Ruto and President Uhuru Kenyatta to reconcile. A little bird privy to the high-level exchanges between the official and the diplomatic mission tells Corridors of Power that a Cabinet Secretary also did not respond to the mission’s request for an appointment. Perhaps the clearest signal that reconciliation in Jubilee won't be coming any time soon. *** Is a recently appointed smooth-talking parastatal boss, who claims to have very high academic papers actually  holding fake documents? Well, it seems so. According to some insiders, the man’s academic and other qualification for the job he is holding are in doubt. However, the man claims to have everyone in high-ranking positions in his network and has recently been rubbing everyone the wrong way. Insiders with whom he has had run-ins are now threatening to spill the beans on events they say stand a good chance to destroy the ‘big man.’ *** A teacher in a Nairobi school is a man in trouble after he ‘mistakenly’ impregnated a daughter of a high-ranking city lawyer. The learner was assigned to the teacher for tuition after Covid-19 disrupted learning in schools. The man, married with two kids, was shocked last weekend when the young girl broke the news to him that she was five-months pregnant with the teacher's child. The girl’s father got wind of the goings-on after the daughter pleaded with him to help her secure an abortion. The lawyer is now hunting down the teacher. *** A speaker in a county in the North Rift is said to have fallen out with MCAs over the manner in which matters are handled in the assembly. Ward reps are said to be burning the midnight oil plotting to remove the official from office. They accuse the speaker of irregularly suspending county assembly employees and replacing them with his sycophants. They also accuse the speaker of making illogical transfers of staff. In a case in point, they said, a procurement officer was transferred and made a librarian. The ward reps have since called on the EACC to investigate irregular awarding of tenders at the speaker's office.