It will cost one a six-month jail term or  Sh10,000 fine if found spitting on a footpath in Nairobi county if a Bill tabled at the assembly sails through. Also, those found blowing their nose and throwing the mucus on paths will be held liable. The Nairobi City County Public Nuisance Bill 2020 has already been tabled before the house. According to the sponsor of the bill, Riruta MCA James Kiriba, the laws are expected to replace the Nairobi City Council by-laws that have been overtaken by events following devolution. “The objective of this Act is to provide for the control for public nuisance and empower the county to take all lawful necessary and reasonably practicable measures on the abatement and prevention of public nuisance,” reads part of the bill. Also what will be a punishable offence if the bill is passed is urinating, defecating on a street, or lighting fires on a road without the authority of the County Secretary. Residing or sleeping in a kitchen or room in which food is prepared or stored for sale will attract a fine not exceeding Sh50,000, a six-month prison term, or both. Playing games in a manner likely to cause damage to property or cause injury will also attract punishment. Shouting or using a bell, loudspeaker, or other noisy instrument or driving a vehicle for the purpose of exhibiting advertisements is contained inside the bill. Also, hawking, selling, distributing, or advertising an article or event on a public road or street without statutory authority will also attract punishment. “Any person who commits an offence under this section is liable, upon conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or a fine of not more than Sh10,000 or both,” reads the bill. In September 2017, Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko reached out to MCAs to amend and repeal by-laws that have crippled the city's growth. Among them are amendments to the finance laws to reduce and abolish trade licence fees for micro and small traders. Sonko said he will propose policies towards the management of the county's debt and address the problem of a bloated workforce. The governor said some of the legislation is draconian, obsolete, and has been used by some scrupulous county staff to entrench corruption. "Some of the city by-laws that have no place under the current constitutional dispensation nor a modern city," he said. "These laws have also provided a fertile ground for corruption to thrive among the employees of the county," Sonko added. The governor said this during his maiden address to the county assembly after the opening of the second assembly.