President Uhuru Kenyatta has reiterated his support for the Nairobi Metropolitan Service saying it remains a critical player in service delivery in the capital. This comes as NMS last week marked 200 days since it was established on March 17, 2020, following the deed of transfer of four county functions. On Tuesday, the Head of state accompanied by NMS Director-General Mohammed Badi and Chief of Defence Forces Gen Robert Kibochi flagged off 83 vehicles that were rehabilitated by the state agency. He refuted claims of ‘militarisation’ but insisted he is working with those who can perform and help him achieve intended goals. “I have no such intention (militarising the nation). But it is only a fool who would not use those who can perform to help him achieve his intended goals. I am using reliable Kenyan citizens to fulfil my agenda for this Republic. And the KDF are part of us and are also part of our citizens,” Uhuru said. Speaking in an interview at a local Television station, while marking 200 days in office on September 27, 2020, Major General Badi stated he was up to the task to deliver Uhuru's directive to transform Nairobi and he has dedicated his time to work for the people of the capital. “I inherited the plans which had never been implemented. I was sworn-in in the afternoon and started working that night. I work on all days of the week, from 7 am, and I get home past 9 pm. Within the first 200 days in office, we have managed to achieve over 100 per cent of what we intended to,” he said. Being a unique county whose Governor transferred four core functions, President Uhuru has not hesitated to hide his interest in the Nairobi Metropolitan Service. He has been making unexpected public appearances while going round inspecting work done by NMS. The inspections and appearance in events are a clear demonstration that Uhuru is confident in NMS and its service delivery. In September, demonstrating his devotion in NMS, the President included DG Badi in Cabinet meetings and its Committees, pursuant to Executive Order No. 3 of 2020. Uhuru witnessed Badi taking and subscription to the Oath of Secrecy, a requirement of all persons who attend Cabinet Meetings or participate in the conduct of Cabinet Business. On August 12, 2020, while presiding over the issuance of title deeds to Eastlands residents, Uhuru made it clear that NMS was not a political office and told off Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko to stop politicising the matter. “My Major General here is not a politician and not interested with the office of the Governor, MCAs or Speaker. He is here for the work I have given him and after two years he will return back to the military,” he said. While marking 100 days in office on June 30, 2020, the President accompanied DG Badi to inspect water projects (Sinking of community boreholes) in Mathare informal settlements. On August 10, 2020, Uhuru commissioned the Sh 210 million NMS slum hospital project which will see the construction and upgrading of 24 hospitals. He witnessed the groundbreaking for the construction of 16-bed capacity hospitals at Muthua in Uthiru and Kianda in Kibra as well as a 24-bed facility at Maendeleo Village in Mukuru Kwa Reuben. Uhuru urged city residents to ignore disruptive and empty political rhetoric, saying that the government's focus was to improve the living standards of Nairobi residents. On June 3, 2020, Uhuru placed NMS under the Office of the President following an Executive order No.1 of 2020. The new order implied that the implementation of the four functions of Nairobi County transferred to the national government will now be under the direct supervision of the President. On May 31, 2020, the President at night inspected the Non –Motorized Transport work along Kenyatta Avenue and Wabera Street in the CBD. Uhuru is expected to launch the new bus termini in November that will be used by city commuters as Badi and his team attempt to decongest the city centre from ‘unruly’ Public Service Vehicles and Traffic jams.