Migori Governor Okoth Obado on Tuesday won big by sealing loopholes which could cost him his seat through impeachment, This is after a friendly Deputy Speaker was elected. The assembly unanimously elected Bukira East MCA Mathews Chacha to be the substantive Deputy Speaker, effectively locking out George Omamba, the North Kanyamkago MCA who has been leading the pro-impeachment motion team in the assembly. On Monday evening, Obado and speaker Boaz Okoth, his closest ally met with several MCAs in a Migori hotel where they hatched the plan ahead of the voting on Tuesday and ensured a court magistrate was available to swear in Chacha. In a two-hour afternoon session chaired by Boaz, the MCAs unanimously voted in Chacha who got 41 votes with another Obado ally, God Jope MCA Leo Lot getting zero votes after being proposed to give the election some credibility. Stunned, 11 pro-motion MCAs at the assembly refused to vote while four walked away and left the assembly. Migori chief Magistrate Dickson Odhiambo was at hand to swear in Chacha, in a move which caught others unawares. “I cannot subscribe to a move which is unprocedural and unlawful, this matter is pending determination in court,” Omamba said. Two weeks ago, there was chaos in the assembly after Omamba, got orders reinstating him as a Deputy Speaker after being thrown out last year in March. The chaos saw nominated MCA Mary Ogodo's arm broken. Seven MCAs have been charged in court over the violence. Following mounting tension over the move,  speaker Boaz Okoth  while addressing the press after the Tuesday session faulted those  opposed to the  election  terming them attention seekers. He said those against Chacha’s elections were out “seeking favors from ODM Party leader Raila  Odinga.” “We know our mandate as elected members, this notion of some people coming to the assembly with directions purported to be from the party leader is a fallacy that will not be tolerated going forward,” Boaz said in direct attack at Obado’s impeachment motion. Boaz has been against the motion and has severally claimed that his life is in danger, and by having Chacha in as his deputy all avenues for tabling the motion are slim.