Football Kenya Federation has named Jacob ‘Ghost’ Mulee as the national team Harambee Stars coach, replacing Francis Kimanzi. Mulee’s appointment came just a day after Kimanzi and his backroom staff of assistant coach Zedekiah ‘Zico’ Otieno and goalkeeper trainer Lawrence Webo left the team on mutual consent, according to the federation. Kimanzi’s exit left the local football fraternity speechless, coming exactly a fortnight after he led Harambee Stars to a 2-1 win over the fancied Chipolopolo of Zambia at the Nyayo Stadium. The fact that the decision was implemented only a couple of days after FKF President Nick Mwendwa secured a second term in office complicates the puzzle even further. What wrong did Kimanzi do to warrant his unceremonious departure? Mwendwa’s tenure has been characterised by speedy entry and exit of coaches on the national stage. He has earned a reputation for hiring and firing at will, sometimes without a valid reason. The FKF supremo first courted controversy in dealing with coaches four years ago when he sent Bobby Williamson packing, saying the federation was more intent on promoting homegrown talent. “But at the same time, we must honour our obligation to Kenya under the promise of investing more on home-grown talent,” said Mwendwa. FKF is yet to pay two former national team coaches their dues after an acrimonious firing. To-date, Williamson is owed Sh55 million after winning a case of unlawful dismissal at the Employment and Labour Court in Nairobi. His successor Adel Amrouche is also in a similar situation. Amrouche was awarded Sh109 million as compensation and damages in 2018 but FKF have defaulted on deadlines set by Fifa’s Dispute Chambers and the Court of Arbitration for Sport to offset the debt. Frenchman Sebastien Migne, who guided the national team to the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt, for the first time in 15 years, had also raised concerns, warning he would sue FKF at Fifa if his pending dues are not paid in full. In the background of the high turnover of Kenyan tacticians, we chronologically look at the men with hearts of steel who have found themselves in unenviable position, while enduring the pain of holding the seemingly volatile job.  Ray Bachelor Ray Bachelor served as a sports officer at Kenya’s Coast Province during the colonial days before being handed the role as the national team coach in 1961. His tenure was characterised by questionable managerial skills that, at one time, occasioned a players’ revolt during the Cecafa Cup in Zanzibar. He oversaw Kenya’s biggest defeat ever in 1965 when the national team crashed 13-0 to Ghana. Bachelor, however, attributed the humiliation to lack of adequate preparations, having taken over the team only four hours prior to kickoff after then coach Peter Oronge developed cold feet and abandoned the team. Bachelor would later part ways with the team and join Nakuru All Stars, whom he propelled to a national league title in 1964.  Peter Oronge After proving beyond reasonable doubt that he was one of the best footballers of his era since the country attained independence, Peter Oronge was appointed national team coach in the hope that his experience on the pitch would translate into a good tactician. He, however, rubbed the local football fraternity the wrong way and turned into a villain in 1965 when he deserted the national team only hours before their crucial tie against Ghana that was played to celebrate Kenya’s first anniversary as an independent republic. Word had it that he allegedly developed cold feet after getting wind that President Jomo Kenyatta would be gracing the match.  Jackie Gibbons After featuring as a striker for Tottenham Hotspur in the English Premier League, Gibbons embarked on coaching in 1956, first guiding the Israel national team and later coaching Israeli side, Hapoel Petah Tikva before coming to Kenya in 1966 as an employee of Coca Cola, where, upon his arrival, was appointed coach of the national team tactician.  Elijah Lidonde Elijah Lidonde took over the reins of the national team in 1967 after an impressive track record as a player. He had featured for Abaluhya FC (modern day AFC Leopards) where he earned popularity for his rasping shots at goal. During one of the matches in the 1950s, he unleashed a powerful shot that dislocated the hand of a European goalkeeper, surprisingly at a time Kenyan players featured in matches barefoot.  Eckard Krautzun Krautzun arrived in Kenya in 1970 aged 29 to take up a role as Harambee Stars head coach, this being his second task after guiding Young Fellows Zurich. Krautzun was the first tactician in Kenya’s history to lead the nation to their first ever Africa Cup of Nations appearance.  Jonathan Niva Niva presided over the national team, featuring both as player and coach at the same time as Kenya launched its campaign for the 1972 Africa Cup of Nations. He netted Kenya’s only goal in their opening game against Cameroon who beat them 2-1. Kenya then played out to a one-all draw in their subsequent matches against both Togo and Mali. Niva retired as an Abaluhya FC player in 1978 to concentrate on full-time coaching. He is famed for helping German coach Bernard Zgoll establish the National Youth Olympic centres in Kenya.  Ray Wood Ray Wood turned out for Manchester United as a goalkeeper and was one of the best in the history of the club. He narrowly escaped death, only sustaining injuries during the Munich air disaster in which 23 people died including several Manchester United players.  After coaching stints with Los Angeles Wolves in the North American league and the Cyprus national team, Wood traveled to Kenya where he guided the country to its first ever Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup title.  Grzegorz Palakov The Polish coach was in charge of the Kenyan team that romped to the  Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup finals in 1979. Prior to coming to Kenya, he had coaching stints with teams in the Polish top and second tier leagues including LKS Lodz and Lechia Gdansk. He featured for Lechia Gdansk during his heydays as a player.  Marshall Mulwa Arguably the most successful coach ever in the history of the country, Mulwa guided Kenya to three successive Cecafa Senior Challenge Cups between 1981 and 1983. So successful was he that Kenya even managed to outclass the host nations in their own backyards. Insiders say Mulwa’s biggest strength as a coach was his exceptional ability to motivate players through pep talks. He was the first coach to select players from teams not considered as traditional giants because he disliked the trend in which the national team was dominated by two or three ethnic groups. This was after he had initially been allegedly denied a spot in the national team because of his ethnic background.  Bernard Zgoll Zgoll will be remembered for establishing Olympic Youth Development centres all over the country that were meant to scout and nurture budding footballers. Among the notable graduates of the centers are Wilberforce Mulamba, Dick Anyanga, Sammy Taabu, Joseph Odera, Josphat Murila and Sammy Onyango. His unimpressive outings with the national team however put him on the wrong course with local fans who demanded his ouster. He eventually jetted out of the country for the Philippines, the centres collapsing in the wake of his departure.  Chris Makokha Chris Makokha made a name for himself as coach of the famous Kakamega High School as well as Motcom FC . He led the Green Commandos to successive national school titles. He, however, failed in his attempt to translate his success in the school games as a national team coach where he fell below expectations at the helm during the 1987 Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup and the 1988 Africa Cup of Nations.   Danilo Alves Alves was seconded to the national team by the Brazilian federation as technical advisor in 1988 during the team’s month long tour of Brazil as they prepared for the 1988 Africa Cup of Nations. He instilled a Samba influence in Kenya’s  style of play, the team displaying the short passes largely associated with the Brazilians. He, however, didn’t achieve much and would soon be replaced.  Gerry Saurer Gerry Saurer’s coaching credentials were shrouded in mystery. That notwithstanding, he somehow penetrated the heart of Kenyan football and secured a coaching role at AFC Leopards in the 80’s, later becoming coach of the Kenya Under 21 team in 1990. He was promoted to the senior team and guided them during the 1992 Africa Cup of Nations.  Vojo Gardasevic The Montenegrin national first arrived in the country to take charge of Gor Mahia FC.  His impressive performance with the traditional Kenyan football giants, whom he guided to a national title in 1995, saw him being offered a job as the national team coach in 1996. He is best remembered for guiding Kenya to an upset on Algeria in a 1996 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier where Kenya won the first leg 3-1 and employed a 10-man defence system in the return leg.  Abdul Majid He got his job as the national team coach during Peter Kenneth’s tenure as Kenya Football Federation chairman. Majid was hired as Harambee stars coach after a stint with Rivatex FC.  Christian Chukwu The former Nigerian international was hired in 1998. He had captained the Nigerian national team to victory during the 1980 Africa Cup of Nations. Under him, Kenya finished at the tail end of their group after a winless streak.  James Siang’a Siang’a featured as the national team’s goalkeeper right from independence until in the early 1970s and was part of the squad that represented the country at the 1972 Africa Cup of Nations. He served as the national team assistant coach on several occasions including the 1988 Africa Cup of Nations. He presided over the activities of the national team between 1999 and 2000. He guided Kenya to the 1999 Cecafa Cup final where they lost to Rwanda.  Reinhard Fabisch Fabisch is so far the most popular coach in the country’s football history. The German had three stints with the national team, first in 1987. Seconded by the German government, Fabisch immediately organised a month-long tour of Germany where Kenya played 10 friendly matches against lower tier German teams. The fruits of the tour were evident at the 4th All African games where Kenya put up a good show only to fall to Egypt in the final by a solitary goal at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. He left the country unceremoniously after falling out with KFF chairman the late Job Omino. He was, however, back in 1997 and quickly embarked on restructuring the team, dropping all the senior players and replacing them with a young squad full of nondescript players. His new charges rose beyond expectations and even held the revered 1996 Olympic gold medalist Super Eagles of Nigeria in a 1-1 draw at Kasarani. After leaving the country, he came back in 2001 but again left unceremoniously following a spat with  KFF. Although he was axed in 2002, the team he helped build qualified for the Africa cup of nations after a 12 year absence.  Joe Kadenge Joe Kadenge  managed the Kenya national football team in 2002. He earned reputation as a versatile winger turning out for both the national team and Abaluhya FC in the 1960s. He was the Harambee Stars team manager during the 1988 Africa Nations Cup.  Mohamed Kheri Mohamed Kheri had several stints with the national team, first in 1988 then in 1995 before getting another chance to guide the country in 2005. This was soon after he led a provincial league side Bandari FC  to the final of the Moi Golden cup in 1986 where they lost 0-1 to Gor Mahia in the final. Kheri had served as assistant coach to Marshall Mulwa in the mid 80s.  In 1989, he led the national team to qualification of the 1990 Africa Cup of nNations. It was during his tenure again that the national team almost  qualified for the World Cup but fell short of doing so after crashing to Egypt in their last match.  Bernard Lama The former French National team goalkeeper was appointed Harambee Stars coach by KFF team led by Alfred Sambu. His arrival brought instant interest from France and there were French TV crews televising Harambee Stars matches during his tenure. He however quit his job after a humiliating performance against a lowly Eritrean side who beat Kenya 2-1. He lashed out at  KFF for incompetence and inability to manage the national team and declared that he could not work under such conditions.  Tom Olaba Tom Olaba was appointed to fill in the void left by Lama after coaching a number of local teams including Bata Bullets and a Tanzanian premiership side, Mtibwa Sugar.  Jacob 'Ghost' Mulee He had a wealth of experience in football having first served as a goalkeeper for Kenya Breweries FC.  He presided over the National Team at the 2004 Africa Nations Cup after a 12 year hiatus.  He also got opportunities to guide the national team  in 2005 and 2007. He however fell out with KFF after being accused of allegedly using his position as Stars coach to coerce players to joining Kenya Breweries from where he could market them to European teams for financial gain.  Francis Kimanzi Kimanzi guided the national team twice, first between 2008 and 2009 and then between 2011 and 2012. He had  coached Mathare United, leading them  to a maiden league title in 2008. He  came to prominence as national team coach when he led the country to its highest ever FIFA ranking at 69. He was fired by the Federation in 2008 after his boss Bob Munro fell out with FKL officials.  Antoine Hey Hey was hired in 2009. Under Hey, Harambee stars lost to Tunisia both home and away, Lost 0-3 to Nigeria and 0-1 to Mozambique away. His only win was a 2-1 win at home to Mozambique. Hey found himself in hot soup after he dropped team captain and dependable goal scorer Dennis Oliech. Both the players and fans called out for his dismissal. Hey called it quits after FKF intervened to re-instate Oliech.  Twahir Muhiddin Muhiddin served as Kheri’s assistant in the 1980s. He rose to national attention after leading local top tier side Oserian to their maiden national league title in 2001 and an impressive continental tour where Oserian impressed against Egyptian and Tunisian sides. Although he posted good results with the national team he felt frustrated  by the lack of support he received from the federation under Mohamed Hatimy.  He quit in 2012 after falling 0-1 to Guinea Bissau, and blaming FKF for the team’s poor performance.  Zedekiah Otieno “Zico”. 'Zico'  was appointed interim Harambee Stars coach in 2012 after Muhiddin’s unexpected departure. While still doubling as Gor Mahia FC coach, Zico proved his mettle as the national team coach, his most famous match being  against Uganda where the Stars forced the Uganda Cranes to a barren draw,  denying the East African neighbors a lifetime opportunity to qualify for  the 2012 Africa Cup of Nations.  Henri Michel Michel generated heated controversy when he declared that Kenya would not be part of the 2012 CECAFA Cup saying it was useless tournament and choosing instead to focus on the CHAN. The statement rubbed Cecafa Secretary General Nicholas Musonye the wrong way. Musonye retorted that CECAFA did not need Kenya and that Michel should worry about where the money for his huge salary would come from. FKF Chairman Sam Nyamweya had offered Michel a colossal perk that amounted to Sh8 million per month, half being his and the other half going to his two assistants in the misguided assumption that the government would offset the huge salary. Michel was also accommodated at the Hilton Hotel during the entire period he was in the country. Nyamweya pegged the salary on Michel’s impressive track record. He was in charge of France when they won the European Championships in 1984, the Olympic gold medal in 1984 and finished third during the 1986 World Cup. Michel, however, left the country a disappointed man, jetting out without having received a single coin from the federation.  James Nandwa Nandwa immediately took over on an interim basis  from  Michel under whom he had deputised. When Michel declined to take the national team to the CECAFA Senior Challenge Cup, the federation asked Nandwa to accompany the squad. He put up a good performance, falling to hosts Uganda in the final.  Adel Amrouche Prior to his appointment, Amrouche, a Belgian national of Algerian descent,  was in charge of the Burundi national team. What surprised many is the fact that Amrouche had even offered to coach for free for the first three months. He instantly endeared himself to local football fans when Kenya held Nigeria to a one all draw in Calabar. Despite his impressive performance, he  was once thrown out of his apartment on numerous occasions after Sam Nyamweya-led KFF failed to pay his dues. He staged a go slow, failing to appear for the first match of the 2013 CECAFA Senior Challenge Cup. He was ultimately offered a five-year contract after the national team emerged victors in  tournament after a hard fought 11-year battle.  Bobby Williamson Williamson took over as the national team coach in August 2014 after presiding over his last game with Gor Mahia in a league game against Sony Sugar on 24 August. He was however replaced by ex-Mathare United manager Stanley Okumbi in February 2016.  Stanley Okumbi Football Kenya Federation president Nick Mwendwa sparked controversy after controversially fishing Stanley Okumbi from Kenyan Premier League newbies Kariobangi Sharks and appointing him as national team head coach in 2016. Mwendwa had a rough time in his  futile efforts to convince a restless public that Okumbi was suited for the job. He was accused of favouring him because he  had previously coached Kariobangi Sharks, a local side said to be owned by the FKF supremo.  Paul Put Mwendwa eventually bulked under pressure from local football fans and corporate sponsors to bring on board a suitable coach. That’s when he brought in Belgian Paul Put in November 2017.  Put came with a wealth of experience, having coached Belgian sides like Lokeren, Lierse and Mouscron as well as the national teams of Gambia, Jordan and Burkina Faso. Under his watch, Kenya won the 2017 CECAFA Senior Challenge Cup. He however quit in February 2018 to join the Guinean national team at a crucial point in time when Kenya was preparing for the 2019 ANC qualifer against Ghana.  Sebastien Migne Frenchman Sebastien Migne was appointed Harambee Stars’ coach in May 2018. Prior to his appointment, Migne served as head coach of the Congo-Brazza national team. His was equally a good stint with national team who pulled off convincing performances over a fancied Ghanaian team as well as bitter East African rivals Ethiopia. He steered Kenya to the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt.   SIDE BAR National Team coaches since independence: Ray Bachelor (1961) Jack Gibbons (1966) Elijah Lidonde (1967) Eckhard Krautzun (1971) Jonathan Niva (1972) Ray Wood (1975) Grzegorz Polakow (1979) Stephen Yongo (1979) Marshall Mulwa (1980–83) Bernhard Zgoll (1984) Reinhard Fabisch (1987) Christopher Makokha (1988) Mohammed Kheri (1988–90) Gerry Saurer (1992) Mohammed Kheri (1995) Vojo Gardašević (1996) Reinhard Fabisch (1997) Abdul Majid (1998) Christian Chukwu (1998) James Siang’a (1999–00) Reinhard Fabisch (2001–02) Joe Kadenge (2002) Jacob “Ghost” Mulee (2003–04) Twahir Muhiddin (2004–05) Mohammed Kheri (2005) Bernard Lama (2006) Tom Olaba (2006) Jacob “Ghost” Mulee (2007–08) Francis Kimanzi (2008–09) Antoine Hey (2009) Twahir Muhiddin (2009–10) Jacob “Ghost” Mulee (2010) Zedekiah Otieno (2010–11, caretaker) Francis Kimanzi (2011–12) Henri Michel (2012) James Nandwa (2012–13, caretaker) Adel Amrouche (2013–14) Bobby Williamson (2014–16) Stanley Okumbi (2016–17) Paul Put (2017–2018) Stanley Okumbi (2018) Sebastien Migne (2018–2019) Francis Kimanzi (2019–present)