No amount of humiliation and intimidation will make Deputy President William Ruto resign, allies of the second in command stated on Monday. Responding to the striking protocol breach that was witnessed in Manyani on Friday, MPs allied to Ruto said there is deliberate attempt to humiliate the Deputy President to a point of making him resign. President Uhuru Kenyatta’s arrival at the Kenya Wildlife Service Law Enforcement Academy in Manyani sparked a fresh debate Ruto’s humiliation within government. The President was received by Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi, in the presence of the Deputy President in an apparent breach of protocol. The incident came just days after a similar episode at State House Nairobi on October 10 where Uhuru was invited to the podium to address the nation by Nyeri Catholic Archbishop Anthony Muheria in the presence of Ruto. “I want to thank the President who asked us to organise this event. We are in your house and I am sure you would want to say something and with all due respect, maybe not following the right protocol, kindly say a word,” Muheria said as he invited the President. Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua said Ruto will remain the Deputy President until the end of Uhuru’s term. “We know there are people doing this hoping that the Deputy President will resign so that another person can be given that position,” he stated. He said he is aware the humiliation and intimidation will continue but assured that the Deputy President would not throw in the towel. “We will be in Kisii on Tuesday for the Mashujaa Day celebrations and we know these incidents may occur again. We will take it in stride to the last day,” he added. Nandi senator Samson Cherarkei said Ruto would continue to be the Deputy President adding that even an impeachment motion would not go anywhere. “He is part of this government. He formed the government with President Uhuru and he is staying with him to the end,. You cannot force him to resign by humiliating and demeaning him,” he added. He continued: “We are grateful to the Constitution because the Deputy President cannot be fired” Tiaty MP William Kamket said the humiliations will continue if the Deputy President continues to act against the wishes of the President. “We are lucky there is the BBI. We should seriously think about amending the law to allow the President to fire the deputy if they cannot work together,” he stated. Kamket added that it is not right for anyone to go against their superiors. “If you don’t agree with your boss, just leave. We will however continue to limp with this situation until we amend the Constitution,” he said. In Manyani, Uhuru was seen alighting from a military helicopter upon which he acknowledges greetings from Matiangi who had been lined up ahead of Ruto. The president is traditionally received by his deputy whenever they are attending the same function. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, an ally of Ruto immediately took to social media to register his disappointment. “The Deputy President Fred Matiangi receiving the President thereafter introduce other Cabinet members. Those of us who didn’t witness the last days of Mzee Jomo Kenyatta ‘will see things’ in the next 22 months,” he tweeted. Nominated MP Millicent Omanga the breach reminded Kenyans of the old days during the presidency of the late Daniel arap Moi. “This reminds me how Moi was frustrated as vice president by people who didn’t want him to ascend to the throne. The rest is history,” she shared. 