National Super League side Shabana FC have launched an ambitious drive to recruit 10, 000 members. Club president Jared Nivaton said those willing to register should pay a registration fee of Sh1, 000. “After wide consultations with stakeholders, we have resolved to start a nationwide registration exercise for members with immediate effect,” he said in a statement. He added: "After registration, we will ask members to adopt membership categories which will include annual or monthly subscriptions which will help us in the day-to-day running of the club. The categories will include gold, silver, bronze and ordinary," said Nivaton. "The registered members will enjoy different rights and privileges," he noted. Nivaton added that the club’s branches in various towns including Kisii, Nyamira, Kisumu, Kericho, Nakuru, Nairobi and Mombasa will be registered. “I want to urge Shabana FC fans to register in large numbers as this will boost our club significantly and also give members a say in the running and management of the club,” said Nivaton. He noted that players will resume training once the government gives a go ahead for the resumption of contact sports. “Currently, we are in limbo because we don’t know when the league will resume. Once the government lifts the suspension of contact sports, the federation will give us ample time to prepare,” added Nivaton. Newly elected Kisii County FKF chairman, Jezreel Mbegera, said: “This is a great move which will go a long way in rewriting a new growth and development agenda for Shabana FC. The future is very bright.” Shabana fans led by A.K Nyakundi and Boniface Ntabo welcomed the initiative,  terming it long overdue. “This is what we have been calling for since 2015. I’m happy the management has embraced it,” said Ntabo. Nyakundi said: “I fully support this idea. Registration of members will enable us make decision including electing officials. I’m making a special appeal to the leadership of fans to rally their members behind this initiative. Shabana should be playing in the Kenya Premier League.”