Squatters in Lamu county want the National Land Commission to conduct a fresh audit of all ranches in the region to resettle them. Areas with high squatter populations in Lamu include Hindi, Mkunumbi, Koreni, Mapenya, parts of Mpeketoni, Kibaoni and Witu. They accuse ranch owners of irregularly acquiring tracts of land in the region and compounding their woes. Many people have ended up as squatters after their lands were grabbed by private developers working in cahoots with officials in the lands offices. Land remains a thorny affair in Lamu, with many parcels still classified as public, something that makes it easy for grabbers to have their way. Back in 2015, the national government revoked ownership of 350,000 acres of mostly ranches after it was established that they were irregularly acquired. Ownership was handed to the county government for administration. The plan was to resettle squatters on the land but it is suspected that the land was secretly handed back to the grabbers. The squatters are now demanding a fresh audit to enable their resettlement as had been planned. Their spokesperson Mohamed Shifu said that many of the so-called ranches are large tracts of land lying idle for decades while they many people remain landless. “If an audit is conducted, the truth about ownership will be revealed and we believe that way, squatters will be resettled. Lamu does not deserve to have squatters because there is so much idle land but because of corruption we now find ourselves living like this,” Shifu said. They said most ranch owners have a habit of grabbing any land bordering theirs and rendering many people landless. The squatters also want the NLC to come clean on the fate of the 350,000 acres whose ownership was revoked by the government in 2015. “The only truth we know is that the land ownership was revoked. Other than that, we only hear rumors that they were repossessed secretly. If this is true, we want to know the position of the NLC on this matter. Were they lying when they said they would resettle squatters on the land?”Shifu said. Edited by Henry Makori