Senators have said laxity by the Transport ministry in supervising contractors of roads works is resulting into substandard infrastructure. The lawmakers blamed the Kenya National Highways Authority, Kenya Urban Roads Authority, Kenya Rural Roads Authority and the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure for stalled and incomplete mega road projects across the country They say mega road projects have developed cracks while others have worn out barely two years later despite billions of shillings of taxpayers’ money spent. The senators criticised the agencies after it emerged that the Sh28 billion Dongo Kundu bypass in Mombasa has started deteriorating. Mombasa Senator Mohamed Faki said the Sh28 billion project has developed cracks and landslides are blocking the way. Potholes have also developed, leading to the closure of some sections of the road, less than two years after the project was completed. They are calling for an audit of all the infrastructure projects undertaken by President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee administration since the 2014-15 financial year. “When you look at the issue of most of the projects that have been undertaken in the country, there has been inadequate oversight by the relevant agencies,” Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei said. “It is sad that the cowboy contractors that were famous in the yesteryears are now on the loose.” Cherargei said Kenha, which responsible for the development, rehabilitation, management and maintenance of all national trunk roads has not been maintaining them. In Nandi county, for example, the senator cited the road between Mberere-Kopele in Kisumu county and Timboroa which he claimed is substandard. “The road from Rivatex to Kapkatembu has been done in a substandard manner. The road from Cheptiret to Moi University is being washed away by floods because of the substandard work,” he said. “There is danger in Chemuswa. All the roads have been done poorly in a mitumba way, yet we have Kerra which is supposed to be an oversight authority.” Cherargei said the contractor has been doing substandard work for many years, yet Kenha has been sleeping on the job. He asked the Senate Committee on Roads and Transportation to order an audit and censure Kenha and Kerra for the lack of supervision and oversight of the roads being constructed in the country. Kitui Senator Enock Wambua said that some projects in his county have either stalled or are incomplete because proper feasibility studies were not carried out before the construction commenced. Wambua said it would serve the country better if proper feasibility studies are carried out before construction starts so that Kenyans get value for that money. Wambua noted that as the national government is undertaking critical infrastructure projects, especially roads across the country, it is not enough to construct them without doing a good job. “It is appalling to hear that less than two years after billions of shillings were sunk into it, it has cracks and landslides are blocking some sections of it,” he said of the Dongo Kundu bypass. Machakos Senator Boniface Kabaka apportioned blame on Kenyan civil, structural and mechanical engineers, whom he said issue certification for completion of the roads. Senator Kabaka has also proposed that the Penal Code be amended so that criminal liability be preferred against the errant engineers and other professionals. “They will not only be surcharged but also face a stiff penalty of even 50 years [imprisonment] and above. This is very serious and billions of Kenyan taxpayers’ money has been spent to put up roads,” he said.