Garissa Deputy Governor Abdi Dagane has termed Governor Ali Korane’s activities unconstitutional and a violation of bail terms in his Sh233 million graft case. Korane has been barred from accessing his office, and by implication, being involved in county executive functions pending outcome of his trial. In the last day, however, Korane has tweeted about a rare meeting with  elders of eight subclans, chairing an executive committee meeting and approving the Finance Bill and county plans. “Following my recent statement to the press, I have noticed an almost reactionary series of activities from the governor that amongst others included engagement of elders from several subclans, some MCAs and the so-called executive meeting,” Dagane said. He said while appreciating the governor's right of association, the meetings were untimely and provoked reactions from some members of the clans. “One must understand simmering tensions can set a dangerous precedent and potentially jeopardise public trust,” Dagane said. As Korane has been barred from his office, the responsibility of running the county has fallen to the deputy governor. He was arraigned in mid-September on charges of abuse of office and misusing a Sh233 million World Bank grant. The governor said he is in cognizant of the fact that most of his engagements, except for being divisive, do not amount to discharging executive functions of the governor's office. Dagane said Korane's activities do violate his bail terms. “It is therefore in his best interest to respect the court orders and act with an abundance of caution," he said. "I remind all county officials who attended the meeting in their official capacities - and worse ferried sensitive documents to an individual resident - of the high ethical standards and code of conduct associated with public service,” the deputy governor said. Dagane said the outcomes of such an unconstitutional forum [Executive Committee meeting] "are illegitimate and will never see the light of the day under my leadership. “Despite my initial appeal for calm and prayers against the governor’s court ordeal, he has charted a contrary path of decisiveness and confrontation which honestly is most welcomed. "I understand how sweet it can get when one had a near-dictatorship regime for three years with lack of accountability and even consultation with any stakeholder, including other elected leaders of the county,” he said. Dagane said no amount of intimidation to him or "the gallant county staff" will shake his resolve to ensure every penny is spent in delivering services to the people of Garissa county. "I confirm to the public my commitment to serve you all and to the last drop of sweat, even if it means to my last breath,” the deputy governor said. (Edited by V. Graham)