After being confirmed as one of Jacob 'Ghost' Mulee's assistants, veteran tactician Twahir Muhiddin is looking forward to qualify Harambee Stars to their sixth Africa Cup of Nations as well as make history as the first Kenyan coach to grace the tournament thrice. Muhiddin, who is the current technical director at Bandari, returned to the bench for the fourth time on Tuesday alongside former national U23 coach Ken Odhiambo and youthful Kariobangi Sharks gaffer William Muluya. Tusker goalkeeper trainer Haggai Azande is also back to the team, where he will be tasked in handling the goalkeeping department. Azande, a retired Kenyan international, was part of the Stars' bench which led the team to claim the 2017 Cecafa Senior Challenge at the Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos. Muhiddin, who deputised Mulee during the 2004 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers and the subsequent finals in Tunisia, says their partnership with his boss and the other members of the bench will successfully steer the team to Cameroon. The former Bandari coach, who prides himself in qualifying Stars for the 1990 finals in Algeria, pledged to use his experience to help Stars navigate the tricky Pool 'B' of the qualifiers. Stars have amassed two points in as many matches and have a double next month against Comoros. "I have worked with Mulee before and I am sure the reunion will bear fruits. Ahead of us are the Afcon qualifiers and we will use our experience to deliver it. I did it in 1990 when the team had already been written off and I partnered with him and  Mohammed Kheri in 2004 and delivered again. Football had changed over the years and with the help of the other members of the bench then I believe we will make it," he said. "I am happy to be back to the team for the fourth time now having joined for the first time in the late 80's," he said Meanwhile, Ghost who was appointed last week to replace Francis Kimanzi, said he opted to work with the staff courtesy of their experience. According to Football Kenya Federation, Kimanzi quit alongside his assistant Zedekiah 'Zico' Otieno and keepers trainer Lawrence Webo on mutual consent.