Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has said he has the interest of Meru at heart and would help the community if elected President in 2022. He spoke at a press briefing in Meru town on Wednesday before he embarked on what he called a tour to listen to the people. Mutua has already declared interest in the presidency and told journalists he is the best suited for the job as he will engage in dialogue on development issues. “The problem is that many politicians do meetings in boardrooms instead of going to Kenyans out there,” he said. He said the country needs leaders who serve the people not those who use them for their selfish gain. Mutua said he chose to start his listening tours in Meru as the people love him from the time he worked in President Mwai Kibaki government. He said at the time he worked with many Meru leaders, including Francis Muthaura and Kiraitu Murungi. “Meru people deserve better services than they are receiving now they should not be used to lift others to the presidency without benefiting,” he said. Mutua said he will stay in Meru for three days to understand the issues in the county. He will tour Maua town in Igembe South constituency, Gakormone in Imenti South and Makutano shopping centre in North Imenti. He said he trained overseas, has experience and can uplift the country as he understands where the world is economically, politically and in terms of development. “We have a lot of resources yet we are so poor. It is quite a shame that Singapore which we were loaning money is now lending us. South Korea was sending people to Kenya to study regional development but now its vice versa,” Mutua said. He added he has national and county government experience as he has served in both as government spokesman and governor. “As governor, I have built roads that many other county bosses could only dream of,” Mutua said. He said if elected President, he would bring stability and unity in the country as he has no grudges with anybody. Mutua said he will only team up with leaders with integrity. Edited by Henry Makori