Msambweni residents have opposed calls by Haki Africa to postpone indefinitely the December 15 by-election. The seat fell vacant after MP Suleiman Dori died in March while undergoing treatment at Aga Khan Hospital in Mombasa. Haki Africa wrote to IEBC chair Wafula Chebukati on October 19, saying political activities are to blame for the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The second wave has been greatly exacerbated by irresponsible political activities within Msambweni, Coast and the country at large,” Haki Africa executive director Hussein Khalid said. But residents said calling off the by-election after an earlier postponement would violate their democratic rights. The first by-election was set for June but was cancelled to mitigate the spread of the virus. "It has been over six months without an MP, so why focus only on corona and not what is good and just for the residents?" Mshenga Ruga asked. Residents said cases of the virus infection in Kwale have remained relatively low compared to other areas. By last week, cases of Covid-19 in the county were at 193. Out of the number, 100 were Kenyans and 93 foreigners from Burundi, Tanzania, Malawi, among other nationalities. Ruga said Haki Africa was being unfair in making the Msambweni by-election an issue. He said Haki Africa did not have a valid reason for stopping the by-election. "The by-election must go on as planned. People are tired; we want to be done with it because whatever excuses they are giving don't make sense," he said. Resident Juma Maone urged Haki Africa not to be used politically by people "who have sensed defeat" and want to interfere with the by-election to buy themselves time. Hassan Chitembe said the Msambweni by-election date should not be altered, saying development projects have stalled because there is no MP to ensure their execution. He said Msambweni residents should not be denied an opportunity to exercise their constitutional rights at the right time. Fatuma Zaunga said they will abide by the public health directives urging the residents to vote peacefully and choose their leaders wisely. Other by-elections on December 15 take place in Dabaso, Kahawa Wendani, Kisumu North, Wundanyi and Nakuru wards. Edited by A.N