Another group of Kikuyu elders have distanced themselves from a group led by Wachira Kiago that visited ODM leader Raila Odinga at his Bondo home on October 10. The elders who call themselves 'Kiama kia Ma' said they were not a part of the function at Raila's home. The trip caused a sharp division within the Mt Kenya region, with residents saying there was a difference between Kikuyu elders and the Kikuyu Council of Elders. A group of elders led by Samuel Maigua on Friday distanced themselves from the Wachira group. Maigua was recognised as the bonafide Kikuyu Council of Elders chairman during a funeral for two youths killed during political chaos in Kenol, Muranga county on October 11. Former Lari MP Mburu Kahangara who is also an elder said the Kikuyu Council of Elders was not supposed to represent the community in leadership matters. "Kikuyu Council of Elders is an entity that is registered as a community-based organisation and cannot control the community in terms of leadership. Kikuyu elders are the ones who control everything," he said on Saturday. Raila skipped State House national prayers on October 9 to host leaders from President Uhuru Kenyatta's backyard. Some of the leaders who attended the function included Nominated MP Maina Kamanda and former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth. However, the elders said the views given by the Kikuyu Council of Elders at Bondo event did not represent them, but the interest of the people who attended the occasion. Kikuyu elders king Thiong'o wa Gitau said he did not attend the event as had been purported by the organisers. He said the organisers of the trip posted a picture taken with Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia and Limuru MP Peter Mwathi at another function insinuating that they would lead the Kikuyu delegation. “A picture we had taken together with Kimemia and Mwathi was posted in social media to attract people to join the trip purporting we were part of the group which was attending. This was so misleading,” Gitau said. “Elders are there to advise the community, but not to go to other communities' political events and even queue for foods and drinks,” he added. Musician Muigai Njoroge asked politicians not to mislead innocent electorate so that they can gain politically. "As we approach general elections, we shall hear all manner of issues. Let us not be misled by politicians because of their personal gain," the musician said. However, Raila has denied that the Kikuyu delegation that he hosted was there to endorse him to run for president in the 2022 general elections. Raila asked politicians not to politicise the issue, since the meeting was aimed at strengthening national unity in the country. 