Nandi County has partially shut down its headquarters in Kapsabet town after eight senior officers tested positive for Covid-19. County Secretary Francis Sang on Monday said the eight officers were from the health department, finance and economic planning as well as the education department. He said the affected departments along with offices of the governor and his deputy will remain shut for 14 days. Covid-19 tests will be done on staff at the county headquarters. “Staff of the said departments shall proceed to work from home for a period of 14 days as part of efforts to cut on the chain of transmission,” Sang  saidin a statement. He said all those who were in contact with those who tested positive had also been asked to quarantine and undergo tests. “Testing of all staff in the affected departments will also commence immediately. Sang said fumigation and other appropriate preventive measures would be undertaken within all county offices. Sang has directed all departments in the county to ensure that they comply with Covid-19 control measures, adding that staff who defy the measures would not be allowed access to the offices. Nandi, Uasin Gishu and Trans Nzoia are some of the counties now reporting high infections on daily basis and Governor Stephen Sang has urged residents to ensure they comply with measures to control spread of the virus. In Uasin Gishu, Governor Jackson Mandago called a crisis meeting and directed the health department to enforce all measures on control of Covid-19. “In order to protect lives, we must ensure everyone uses masks, hand washing is done in all institutions and public places and social distancing must be adhered to,” Mandago said. The county is planning to carry out a swoop in hotels and restaurants along with all other public places to ensure action is taken against all those who don’t comply with the control measures. Majority Leader at the Uasin Gishu Assembly Josphat Lowoi said following the death of Huruma MCA Peter Chomba due to Covid-19, they had taken preventive measures at the assembly, including shutting down all operations for 21 days. “We are telling residents of this region that Covid-19 is real and if we want to remain alive, then we have to adhere to the control measures as outlined by the Ministry of Health,” Lowoi said. Lowoi urged politicians to put on hold all political activities to contain spread of the disease.