President Uhuru Kenyatta and First Lady Margaret Kenyatta on Tuesday were handed the first two samples of Huduma Cards. The handing over was done by Attorney General Paul Kihara during the Mashujaa Day celebrations at Kisii stadium. While announcing the handover, Interior CS Fred Matiangi said the process of developing the cards was complete and the cards ready for issuance. Matiangi said two years since the process began has been a tedious journey but at last, the cards had been developed. He said issuance of the cards will however be rolled out after the appointment of the data commissioner. "Your Excellency I am happy to report that the Huduma Namba process is complete and Kenyans will start receiving their cards as soon as Parliament approves data commissioner nominee," Matiangi said. He added, "This issuance will be done in strict compliance to the guidelines issued by the court". The brief ceremony saw Uhuru present 10 other samples to locals for validation. Uhuru said the single identity card will see Kenyans have easy access to government services hence reduce long queues witnessed in government offices. "Today you have all witnessed as I received mine, we now wait upon the national assembly to complete their work and vet the data commissioner so that we can roll out nationwide issuance as soon as possible," Uhuru said. So far, the National Assembly Departmental Committee on Communication, Information and Innovation is seeking views from the public on the suitability of Immaculate Kassait as the Data Commissioner. Clerk of the National Assembly Michael Sialai said the Memoranda should be accompanied by supporting evidence on views submitted. He urged members of the public to send their views by Monday October 26. Parliament is set to vet Kassait following her nomination by President Uhuru Kenyatta last week. Kassait is currently the Director for Voter Education, Partnership and Communication at the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC). The Data Commissioner will be responsible for the enforcement of the Data Protection Act with duties such as exercising oversight on data processing operations, promoting self-regulation among data controllers, promoting international cooperation in data protection related issues, and conducting research on data processing development. Earlier on the President urged Kenyans to ignore rumours being spread  regarding the National Integrated Identity Management system (NIIMS) Speaking during a Cabinet meeting on Friday at the KWS Law Enforcement Academy in Manyani, the President said that some people were spreading rumours that a German firm has been handling the Huduma Namba exercise. Deputy President William Ruto's allies had earlier this month alleged the system was being managed by a foreign firm, adding that there was a scheme to rig the 2022 elections. However, Uhuru said, "After watching and listening to certain individuals speaking a lot of total ignorance...talking I don't know about Germans coming to do Huduma Namba, I don't know which contract being signed, how many billions...these are the Germans you've been talking about (young Kenyan innovators). Uhuru asked the people who are still doubting about the entire Huduma Namba process to engage the innovators. "You can meet them in person and ask them all the questions that you have." The president said that the young innovators were behind the development of a platform that saw the collection as well as submission of census outcomes in record time. "Have helped us to develop a platform that allowed us to do our census and deliver the results of our census in record time until we have countries from all over Africa, including Europe wanting to know how we managed to develop the system." He applauded the Kenyan youth working with the multi-agency government team on various national security projects for their outstanding innovation, commitment, and patriotism.