BY ROBERT OMOLLO @robertomollo3 The Homa Bay government has donated 110 acres to the Export Processing Zones Authority for the establishment of industries. EPZA is expected to implement projects worth Sh1.5 billion on the land in Riwa village, Kibiri ward, Karachuonyo constituency. The parastatal is mandated to promote export-oriented industrial investment within designated zones. Homa Bay Lands executive Roseline Odhiambo on Monday led a delegation, including EPZA officials led by the agency's director Atieno Otieno, in erecting beacons on the land. Odhiambo said the community donated the land in the 2015-16 financial year. “The land is given to the EPZA to enhance industrialisation, which will create jobs for the people, both in Homa Bay and beyond,” she said. She urged residents to cooperate with EPZA for a smooth implementation of the project. “You can’t realise development in a chaotic place, hence we want our people to work closely with the project implementers,” Odhiambo said. Otieno said they will begin works early next year. “The demarcations we put on the land are the beginning of our plan of implementing the project. I believe the project will be helpful to residents,” she said. The director was with EPZA finance committee board chairman Frank Walukwe and West Karachuonyo assistant county commissioner Jackson Sindani. She said the projects will involve the establishment of various industries from both Kenya and overseas. “The government will establish big industries here but there will also be many others from other countries such as America, China, and Egypt,” she said. Incubation centres to be used for training young entrepreneurs in how to undertake their business ventures will also be established. “The centers will also provide value addition skills to enable them to maximise income from their agricultural activities. All these will create jobs,” Otieno said. The project will also improve access to water, electricity and better roads and sewer lines for residents. Sindani said they will provide proper security for the implementation of the project.  Edited by P.O