Nyeri county plans to screen about 100,000 people for cervical and breast cancer this month. The number is five times those screened in October last year, when some 20,000 people, mostly women, were screened. Deputy Governor Caroline Karugu said the exercise will take place in all county hospitals, unlike last year when it was only conducted at the county referral hospital. Karugu told Inooro TV on Wednesday night that this time screening will be done at the nearest health facility. In dispensaries and health centres, women will be shown how to conduct self-examination for breast cancer while at home. She said public hospitals are also working in partnership with private health facilities. While public hospitals will be offering services for free, their private counterparts have either reduced the cost of testing by half or are offering  free screening. “We have opened doors in all our county hospitals. The same applies to Kenyatta National Hospital – Othaya Annex, which has also opened doors, and residents will not be required to pay a single cent to get screened," Karugu said. The deputy governor has been leading a cancer awareness campaign in the county since she was picked as the county’s deputy chief. “Let us take this exercise seriously because this year alone, Kenya has lost 33,000 people to cancer,” she said. Karugu said cervical and breast cancer are the biggest killers. She said seven women die from breast cancer daily in the country, while eight die from cervical cancer. About 80 per cent of people go to hospital when it is too late and the disease has advanced to even stage four, she added. She called advised women to go for screening once a year and a mammogram screening for those who have attained 40 years. Karugu blamed the increasing cancer cases on the overuse of chemicals in farms such as pesticides and herbicides to kill pests and weeds. According to research, she said, Kenya has increased its imports of these chemicals threefold in the last five years. “In 2015, we imported 6,700 tonnes of pesticides and 18,000 tonnes in 2019, which is close to three times what we imported in 2015,” she said. Edited by A.N