Deputy President William Ruto has asked the police to hold to account those behind the Murang’a violence on Sunday. Speaking from his Karen residence on Tuesday, Ruto said the security has details of the perpetrators and should take action against them. “The security apparatus is aware of those who caused the violence. Action must be taken against them, irrespective of their political standing,” Ruto said. The DP said that the skirmishes witnessed on Sunday at Kenol, Murang’a, during his visit were a continuation of what had been done in Kisii when some youths were deployed to cause violence during his development tours. “It also happened in Kajiado recently where the provincial administration was used to intimidate and threaten wananchi from attending my function.” He said that the police are being used to execute "political assignments", calling on the Inspect General of Police Hilary Mutyambai to stand on the side of justice and serve all Kenyans without discrimination. Ruto hosted grassroots leaders from Narok County. He alleged that the spats of violence being witnessed in his meetings were a product of those uncomfortable with the conversion of the empowerment of the ordinary people. “We do not want the politics of balkanisation of dividing the country along with tribal enclaves,” Ruto added. Ruto continued that the country was yearning for issues-based politics. “We want the politics of uniting and transforming our country. Let us focus on the politics of the ordinary people.” He added that, “We can all walk together. No one is at threat with this new conversation." The second in command has reiterated that no kind of intimidation will stop him from discharging his duties. He said he would intensify his call for a change in political conversation in Kenya. “It is difficult. It is uncomfortable. But we must have this discussion. We are going to intensify this talk so that we can empower everyone." Leaders present were Gabriel Tongoyo (Narok West), Aramat Lemanken (Narok East), Mpaayei Phillip (Kajiado), David Ole Sankok (nominated), and George Sunkuyia (Kajiado West). Others were Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East), Mohammed Ali (Nyali), Japheth Mutai (Bureti), Mugambi Rindikiri (Buuri), Malulu Injendi (Malava), and former Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar. The Narok West MP said the police must be independent and avoid being used to push the interests of some political desires. Lemanken asked leaders to unite and work together in developing the country. “Let us compete on issues and development track-record,” he said. Sankok said that Jubilee Party is a product of the church, hence it was a show of disrespect to President Uhuru Kenyatta by throwing teargas to the places of worship.