Jeers and heckling punctuated Monday’s launch of the Building Bridges Initiative report, a document touted as the panacea to the country’s problems. The document received by President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga last week in Kisii has been lauded as the right prescription to the winner-take-it-all problem, which has seen the country degenerate into violence after every election cycle. However, delegates at Bomas of Kenya had little patience with any speaker expressing reservations on the report. Caught in the mix were Deputy President William Ruto and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, who had their speeches interrupted as the crowd heckled them for picking holes in some of the proposals. The crowd even chanted ‘Respect the President’ to DP Ruto, who had highlighted some proposals he believed needed a second look before going into a referendum. Among the issues Ruto questioned was the establishment of Judiciary Ombudsman, who will be an appointee of the Executive. “Having an ombudsman appointed by the Executive into the Judiciary is a derogation from the independence of the institution,” Ruto argued. He said this would erode the independence of the Judiciary. Instead, he proposed that the ombudsman be appointed by the Chief Justice. The DP also raised an issue with the proposed structure of the National Police Service, in which BBI proposes the creation of a police council, whose chair will be an appointee of a Cabinet minister. He also questioned how the creation of a Prime Minister post and two deputies, and the establishment of the position of the opposition leader would cure the winner-take-it-all problem. Hell broke loose when the DP tried to defend his wheelbarrow and mkokoteni (hand cart) programme, which he has been dishing to youths across the country. He was met with jeers and booing forcing him to temporarily pause his speech as he pleaded with the crowd to give him chance, saying he was about to finish. The DP added that he had listened to other views and he should be listened to. The delegates would hear none of it. Mudavadi did not get it easy after his attempt to highlight issues he had concerns with in the report did not settle well with the audience. The ANC leader said the appointment of the Office of Judiciary Ombudsman to be done by the Chief Justice and not the Executive. This set up the former Vice President against the charged crowd who started booing him. He, however, went on saying he is raising critical issues. Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki termed the humiliation of Ruto as pre-planned and warned of attempts to make Ruto the face of the mess of Jubilee administration. "On a day deceptively paraded as one of building the blocks for our elusive National unity, the ugly truth has come out. It turns out that the climax of all this two-year charade was to isolate and humiliate Deputy President of the Republic who, according to the BBI chiefs, is solely responsible for all the past, present and future problems that our Country is grappling with," Kindiki said. 