Dexamethasone — a drug used to treat Covid-19 and rheumatic problems — can boost the survival of premature babies when given to pregnant women at risk of preterm birth, a study has shown. Preterm births are deliveries that occur before the full pregnancy period of 37 weeks. In most cases, the babies also weigh less than 2.5kg. Dexamethasone is a steroid used to treat several conditions, including severe cases of Covid-19 and rheumatic problems. The study was conducted between December and November 2019 from 29 random secondary and tertiary level hospitals in Kenya, Nigeria, India, Pakistan and Bangladesh. It recruited 2,852 women and their 3,070 babies and the results of the clinical trial published in the New England Journal of Medicine. “Beyond finding a significantly lower risk of neonatal death and stillbirths, the study also found there was no increase in possible maternal bacterial infections when treating pregnant women with dexamethasone,” the study shows. From the study, for every 25 pregnant women treated with the drug, one premature baby’s life was saved. The drug , when administered to mothers at risk of preterm birth, crosses the placenta and accelerates lung development, thus making it less likely for preterm babies to have respiratory problems at birth. Prematurity is the leading cause of death in children under the age of five. It has many causes that include having closely spaced pregnancies, physical stress, severe anaemia, malaria, malnutrition, drug and substance abuse, foetal infection and multiple pregnancies. Most of these can be addressed when identified early, especially when mothers attend antenatal clinics. Data from the Health ministry shows out of 1.5 million babies born annually, around 134,000 come too soon. Kenya is ranked 15th globally in the number of premature births out of 188 countries. One in every eight babies born is born preterm. Globally, it is estimated that 15 million babies are born too soon, while one million die due to complications resulting from their early birth. The study now says the drug is effective to be administered in low resource settings where half of the babies are born at 32 weeks or below due to lack of feasible, cost-effective care. “Dexamethasone is now a proven drug to save babies born too soon in low-income settings,” head of maternal and perinatal health unit at WHO Olufemi Oladipo said. “But it is only effective when administered by healthcare providers who can make timely and accurate decisions and provide a minimum package of high-quality care for both pregnant women and their babies,” he added. The study suggests that treatment should be initiated 48 hours before delivery, adding that women in weeks 26 to 34 of their pregnancy are most likely to benefit from the steroid. As a result, healthcare workers will be required to have access to ultrasound to accurately date the pregnancies, coupled with good quality care after the baby is born. “When a minimal package of care for the newborn babies including management of infections, feeding support, thermal care and access to a CPAP machine to support respiration is in place in low-income countries, antenatal steroids such as dexamethasone can help to save preterm babies’ lives,” Rajiv Bahl said. He is the head of the newborn health unit at WHO and one of the study coordinators. WHO recommends that countries, health systems and pharmaceutical companies across the world ensure quality and effective supply chains and pricing to prevent hoarding or stock-outs of the drug. Edited by EKibii