 A ward representative wants to know why county employees are threatening tenants with eviction despite rate and rent waivers on arrears issued by Governor Mike Sonko in April last year. Woodley member of County Assembly Mwangi Njihia said in a statement last Thursday that the waivers were granted by the executive both formally and through advertisements. “The move by Governor Sonko to waive the arrears was meant to ease the debt burden in rent arrears for most of the tenants and bring a new chapter in the management of rent payments,” Njihia said. But the tenants continue to get eviction threats and harassment from county government employees, he said and asked the chairperson of the sectoral committee on County Finance, Budget and Appropriations to inquire and report on the status of the waivers. The committee should also report on the measures taken by the planning department officers to enforce the governor’s waiver decree. The county has 17,000 houses in Maringo, Uhuru, Kaloleni, Jericho, Buruburu, Kariobang South, Ziwani and Jerusalem whose tenants pay between Sh2,000 and Sh20,000 monthly rent depending on the location. It also has houses in other parts of the city. According to Sonko, some of the tenants had defaulted for more than six years before the waiver. Some of the debt dates back to the time of the defunct Nairobi City Council. In March 2019, Housing director Marion Rono disclosed to the County Assembly’s Budget and Appropriations Committee that City Hall was owed Sh224 million by tenants. The following month, Sonko waived Sh172 million rent arrears "to end cases of tenants being evicted from county government houses by cartels who later allocate the houses to new tenants at a fee". The governor said: “In recognition and honour to our workers, I have issued a waiver of rent arrears owed by our tenants. However, I’m appealing to tenants occupying Nairobi County Government houses to pay their monthly house rents on time without defaulting.” But in the same month (April 2019) Kariobangi South tenants claimed rowdy youths had kicked them out of their houses. They said they had been spending nights in the cold after they were evicted at Mtarakwa near Mahutini by 50 youths who also broke into their houses and carted away their belongings.  - mwaniki fm