Concern has been raised over the stallled Sh350 million Dandora Stadium despite the contractor having been paid. The stadium should have been completed in July, but work stopped when it was 80 per cent done. Last Thursday, Dandora Four MCA Francis Ngesa sought to know the reason for the delay yet everything - including the allocation of funds - had been put in place. "The county government had put in place initiative of providing platform for the youth empowerment. It is therefore important to note that the county government had commenced work on the stadium but stalled midway for reasons not known,” Ngesa said in a statement in the county assembly. He wanted answers from the Sectoral Committee on Culture and Community. The committee was given two weeks to respond and show the steps the county executive has taken for the job to be completed. The contractor, M/s Scanjet Construction Limited, left the site in September last year. Since then, about 10 County Executive  Committee members and other officials have been investigated on recommendations of the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority. The PPRA questioned the tendering process and the standard of the work. Scanjet Construction had won the tender to build four stadia at Sh1.03 billion. The job was to be completed in 18 months. The other stadia are Kawangware and Kihumbuini at Sh250 million each, and Ziwani at Sh186.6 million. The PPRA flagged irregularities in the awarding of the tender, alteration of contract specifications, suspected irregular payments and forgery of documents. The authority had on June 13, 2019, received a complaint that Scanjet Construction was using steel structures in clear contravention of the contract specifications for the Dandora stadium. Further, the county government irregularly paid the contractor despite warnings from technical evaluators that contract documents, including cabinet memorandum, were forged to state the stadium should be steel structure when the work is 70 per cent complete. After investigations, the PPRA indicted the county government for paying Sh196.87 million to the contractor despite the technical evaluators questioning the quality of work. It recommended remedial action against any party culpable. The EACC officials also completed evaluating the stadium but their report is yet to be submitted. By the time the project stalled, more than 3,000 seats had been installed in the terraces. The floodlights had also been fitted.  - mwaniki fm   