Patrick Okulo, 28, stands on the cusp of greatness as he prepares to skipper Vihiga United back to the Kenyan Premier League. Only Kisumu All Stars stand between Vihiga United and a berth in Kenya's top tier league for the second time in two years where the two are meant to clash in a two-legged promotion/relegation playoff next month. He has seen it all in the world of football but would still choose it as a career if he were ever offered a second chance to make a choice. Fierce opposition from parents, financial challenges, injuries and the bitter taste of relegation have done little to quench his passion for football. At the age of 10, the North Bunyore ward native nursed ambitions of brushing shoulders on football pitches with the creme-de-la-creme of local and world football. His old folks, however, felt that ravaging books would pay better dividends than football especially since none of Okulo's family members had ever dabbled in sports. However, the second born in a family of six was determined to buck the trend — constant punishment from his parents notwithstanding. "During my time in Ebisti Primary in 1997, we would always go play football at a nearby pitch after lunch. When we went home, most of us were caned by our parents, who wanted us to focus on our studies," the second-born in a family of six says. Move to Nairobi In 2001, his parents relocated to Nairobi hoping that he would not get time to play football but focus on his studies. His love for football only grew stronger and he became an integral spine of Mathare Primary School football team through which he gained exposure. He participated in various estate tournaments including Maisha Tournament in Mathare slums. His footballing journey took him to Kakamega United in Kawangware at the time he joined Milimani Secondary School for Form One and Two. At Kakamega United, he started out in the club's Under—14 side before graduating to the Under—16 side. At Milimani, he was pivotal to the side's progression to the Kenya Secondary School Association provincial games. “At this stage, my parents came to realise that I was indeed a talented footballer and they started supporting me. They would now give me time to go for training and tournaments,” Okulo says. Soaring star In 2007, Okulo was transferred to Kabuyefwe Friends’ Secondary School, Kitale, to complete his secondary school education. His footballing star soared as the midfield marshal propelled  Kabuyefwe  to the national championships. However, the balance between football and education was not always easy especially in Form Four. “In Form Four, everybody is focused on the national examinations. I spent little time in training and more in books because I didn’t want to disappoint my parents,” he says. Afterwards, he joined Strathmore University for a Certificate in Business Management and Computer Studies. While at Strathmore, he joined the Under—20 World Hope Church team in Mathare, which was participating in Division Two League. He played for two seasons during which the club qualified for the National Super League. His next sojourn was at Naivasha-based Oserian FC in 2011 during which he scored crucial goals to propel them to the Kenyan Premier League in 2012 “I left Oserian as the best midfielder with six goals before moving to Vapor Sports of Kawangware in Nairobi,” he says. Blessing in disguise His football career was temporarily jolted by his family's decision to relocate to the village in Vihiga in December 2013. "At this point, I felt like my sports career had come to an end. Little did I know that  it was the beginning of my relationship  with Vihiga United FC,” he says. Thanks to a friend's invitation to join Chavakali United, Okulo caught the eye of Edward Manoah, who was scouting for Vihiga United at the Musalia Mudavadi Cup. "My friend David Kavaji helped me enlist with Chavakali United who were playing in that tournament. It is during the tournament that I met Manoah who was looking for players to join the newly-formed Vihiga United," he says. After the formation of the Vihiga United in 2014,  he was named the vice captain by Manoah. Within four years, the county-sponsored side had risen from Division Two to the KPL with Okulo an integral part of the side. However, in 2019, the team were relegated  to NSL after a run of dismal results in the top tier. However, the skipper is upbeat that the playoff against Kisumu All Stars is the beginning of the return to glory days for his side. The playoffs were scheduled for October 7 and 11 but was postponed after the Ministry of Sports declined to okay the resumption of football activities in the country. They are now scheduled for Mumias and Kisumu on October 30 and November 3 respectively as FKF envisages that the Premier League will start on November 20. Joy and pain Undoubtedly, Vihiga United's promotion to KPL in 2017 is a moment that Okulo savours to this day. "The moment is made better by the fact that I scored 17 goals to help my team gain promotion to KPL. The league offered me a chance to market myself to another level," Okulo says. On the flipside, his side's relegation in 2019 remains his lowest footballing moment. “Challenges are everywhere, even in farming and other professions.  However, as humans, we shouldn't dwell on them but work hard to change the demerits to merits,” he says. Judging from his aspirations, it seems that Okulo will be in the football industry for many years to come. “Sport is a short term activity so in the next five years, I would wish to play for the national team before hanging up my boots to start coaching,” the married father of one says. His coach, Sammy Okoth, has nothing but high praise for him. "Okulo has got great leadership skills. He has done us proud because he never gives up but  keeps on motivating his colleagues on the pitch,' Okoth says. Challenges As is the case for many other teams in Kenya, financial setbacks have been a thorn in the flesh for Okulo and Co. at Vihiga United. It is commonplace for players to go penniless for months, which has demoralised many and left them debt-ridden. However, County Sports Chief Officer Philip Gavuna believes that this challenge will soon be history in so far as  Vihiga United is concerned thanks to sustainability measures instituted by the county government. “We have established  a Sports Fund Act to ensure the team is funded in its activities and players are paid on time,” Gavuna said. The Covid-19 period has been particularly harsh as the lack of sporting activities has denied them match allowances. "Due to Covid-19, we have been unable to train as a team or even play matches," Okulo says. In his characteristic stoic mentality, Okulo is currently running a poultry business to make ends meet. However, his eyes are focused on Kisumu All Stars as he dares to dream once again of rising from the ashes like a phoenix and soaring higher in KPL. It may be that Okulo and Vihiga United will be second time lucky and become mainstays of the top tier.  Biography of  Patrick Okulo. Born: 1992 in North East Bunyore ward Emuhaya in Vihiga County. Education: 1997 joined Ebitsi primary, 2001 transferred to Mathare primary where he did KCPE in 2004. 2005 joined Nairobi milimani secondary for form one and two. 2007 moved to Kabuyefwe friends’ school in Kitale where he did KCSE in 2008. In 2010 he joined Strathmore University on a Business management certificate and computer certificate as well. ON FOOTBALL. Maisha tournament- 2003 and 2004, Kawangware united under 14, 16,20, - 2005-2006 -2007 World Hope Church under 20- 2009 -2011. Oserian FC -2012. Vapor FC 2013. Chavakali united 2013- December. Vihiga United-2014- to date. Under Vihiga United. In 2014, 2015 Division One. In 2016 National Super League (4). In 2017 NSL champions. In 2018 promoted to KPL (12). In 2019 relegated back to NSL. In 2020 NSL Position Three