A crisis is looming in Nairobi as intensive care units set aside for Covid-19 patients are almost full. Kenya is witnessing a spike in new cases after the government relaxed restriction measures imposed to curb the pandemic. Loise Ombajo, Head of Infectious Diseases at the Kenyatta National Hospital, said hospitals are getting full with the increase in new cases. “In Nairobi, most ICU beds are almost full. Remember an ICU bed is not just a bed but comes with other amenities including human resource,” she said on Tuesday. Ombajo spoke during an interview on Citizen TV. Nairobi has continued to be the epicentre of the virus since the first case was reported in March. Nairobi recorded 305 cases on October 22, 235 on October 23, 154 on October 24, 333 on October 25 and 50 cases on October 26. On Tuesday, the city had 556 new Covid-19 cases bringing the total to 24,631. Nairobi Hospital had 57 patients, KNH 51 and Kenyatta University Teaching Referral and Research Hospital 36. Ombajo said some hospitals in Nairobi turn away patients due to lack of beds. She recommended that the government has to change strategy. “At KNH, we still have some few beds available but other bigger hospitals are forced to turn away patients or refer them to other health facilities,” Ombajo said. “Remember Covid-19 is not a one-day admission and we have more people seeking admission daily and only a few get lucky. We need to do something before hospitals are overwhelmed.” Two weeks ago, the Nairobi Metropolitan Service conducted a two-day free mass testing. However, the office is yet to release the results of the exercise. On August 1, the Ministry of Health published a list of 14 isolation and quarantine facilities within Nairobi where patients can seek help. However, most of the facilities listed were learning institutions that have already reopened. Kenya High School, Kenya Education Management Institution, Nairobi School and St George’s Girls High School which had 2,070 beds charged Sh2,000 daily. Moi Forces Academy, Pangani Girls, Moi Girls and Lenana School were also listed as isolation and quarantine centres. Kenya Water Institute in South C offers facilities at Sh3,000 per day while the Kenya Institute of Special Education charges Sh4,000. With a capacity of 1,184, the Cooperative University in Karen charges Sh5,200 daily while JKUAT along Thika Road with a capacity of 4,000 charges Sh4,000. In July, The Nairobi Metropolitan Services announced it had set aside at least eight schools as isolation centres as part of the capital’s preparedness for Covid-19. NMS director of health services Josephine Mbae on Tuesday said that the schools will be occupied by Covid-19 patients who are not able to self-isolate. In collaboration with the University of Nairobi, NMS was setting up a makeshift facility with a capacity of 160 beds at Mbagathi Hospital. Mbagathi’s Blocks A and B will have another 78 beds, 10 of them set aside as ICUs. Mbae said NMS was in the process of procuring equipment for a 70-bed facility as well as 18 ICU beds for Mama Lucy Hospital.