The Law Society of Kenya in Bomet on Tuesday denounced the Public Order Act requiring politicians to seek police permission to hold public meetings. Lawyers told reporters the regulations authorised by the Cabinet last week are illegal and invalid. They spoke during the launch of Legal Awareness Week. They said the role of the police is to provide security in public meetings, not to authorise or disallow them. The requirement of police permission was made after two persons were killed in Kenol, Murang'a county, during a church fundraiser by Deputy President William Ruto. A police intelligence held both sides responsible. Led by its chairman Kadet Kiprono, the LSK accused Public Service chief Joseph Kinyua of usurping powers not allowed by the Constitution. “We only notify the police whenever there is a public meeting so they provide security but we cannot go and seek permission, not anywhere in Kenya… The Public Order Act is not only unconstitutional but illegal and we as LSK will never yield to it,” Kiprono said. He said the state should respect the Constitution as the supreme law of the land, adding there were no shortcuts in implementation. “Every arm of the government or institutions has its roles clearly spelt out in the Constitution and so some individuals cannot sit and purport to make new laws,” the chairman said. The lawyers also supported the dissolution of Parliament as advised by Chief justice David Maraga for not passing legislation to implement the two-thirds gender rule. Milca Kirui said the National Assembly as constituted is illegal. Cosmas Koech and Desmond Leteipa said they supported LSK president Nelson Havi's push to dissolve Parliament. Koech said the National Assembly had implemented most of the 2010 Constitution, except for legislation to implement the gender rule. Lawyers urged the public to attend Legal Awareness Week, saying many people were not informed of their rights. Lawyers will offer free advice on issues including succession, police harassment, domestic violence and other issues. (Edited by V. Graham) 