It seems someone is asleep on the job at the Council of Governors. Well, the Council, which brings together all the 47 Governors in the country, has not deemed it fit to update its website to reflect changes, some which were made almost six months ago. For instance, CoG on its website still indicates that Kiambu County has no Deputy Governor to date when it is no secret that Joyce Wanjiku Ngugi was sworn in on April 15, 2020 and has been serving in the office since then. Maybe it is time somebody is woken up from what is obviously deep slumber. A legislator from Western is said to be worried after learning that constituents have discovered that politico has flooded her office with relatives. Her woes are deepening, especially on realising that this is likely to cost her any elective post in the coming elections. The legislator is said to go against the public service policy that demands that one should not practice nepotism in public service. Her constituents are unhappy and have promised to teach her a lesson in the next election. The unveiling of the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) has left many politicians lost especially after they declared they will run for certain elective positions prior to its launch. One such case was heard when a legislator who had positioned herself to run for a seat that will be scraped should BBI sail through. The development has left the politico confused and unsure how to proceed in her political career. The legislator is said to be under pressure to consider running for senator rather than the seat earmarked for scrapping which she had invested a fortune in the last one year. It remains to be seen what steps the legislator will take to make things right. An astute political figure could just be fooling the public with public display of affection with his wife in tow even as it emerges they live at separate homes. Corridors understands the differences could be so immense to a near apocalypse and only make appearances on national holidays wearing broad smiles to hoodwink the publics. A source in the know has told Corridors of Power that the chasm could have been fueled by radical political stand that resulted in fallout with a close family friend, drinking habits and substance abuse and broader dysfunctional home.    ** 1.A lawmaker in Nyanza is having sleepless nights following flurry of activities by businessman in his constituency. The business mogul known for his deep pockets and foreign networks has been crisscrossing the metropolitan Constituency giving out assistance to the vulnerable something that has not gone down well with the incumbent who is reading politics in the action of the philanthropist. Moles whispered to corridors that the lawmaker is not resting since the businessman hit the ground and is contemplating changing his political base just to avoid a contest considering the businessman also enjoys cordial relationship with Odm leader Raila Odinga.   