Eight people were killed in two separate road crashes in Homa Bay county on Tuesday. Three people died in an accident that involved a motorbike and a fuel tanker on Gamba-Oyugis road in Kasipul constituency. The boda boda rider and his two passengers from the same family died on the spot after the tanker lost control and hit them near Ondiwa-Gamba Primary School. The motorbike and the truck were heading towards Oyugis town. The accident occurred around 7:30pm when the lorry driver tried to negotiate a corner. He hit the motorcyclist with his passengers. Speaking to journalists, area police commander Lilies Wachira confirmed the boda boda rider and his passengers died on the spot. “We’re looking for the lorry driver and his turn boy to record statements over the incident because they ran away after the incident,” Wachira said. The bodies bodies of the dead were moved to Rachuonyo South subcounty hospital mortuary while the wreckage of the motorbike was taken to Oyugis police station. The incident occurred three hours after five people from the same family died while six others were injured in a road accident in neighbouring  Kabondo Kasipul constituency. The Tuesday evening accident occurred near Kadongo market along the Oyugis-Kisumu road. Three women died on the spot while a man and another woman died as they received treatment at Rachuonyo South subcounty hospital in Oyugis town. The six family members who survived the tragedy were admitted in the same hospital. The accident occurred when ten family members were travelling in a matatu from a funeral towards Kisumu county. The vehicle collided with an oncoming truck. Eyewitnesses said the lorry driver was trying to avoid a speeding saloon car before it collided with the matatu. “The saloon car was in speed when the incident occurred. It is unfortunate people have lost their lives,” a witness said. The bodies were moved to Rachuonyo South Subcounty Hospital morgue. The incident occurred during heavy rains in the area that had brought transport on the highway to a standstill for some time Deputy county commissioner Kiprotich Rop said the accident occurred after the lorry driver failed to control his vehicle. “It seems the lorry driver applied emergency breaks before the collision occurred,” Rop said. The driver of the truck disappeared from the scene after the accident. Both vehicles were towed to a local police station. Edited by Henry Makori