Devolution is working very well. If we are to rate counties on a general sense, I’d put the overall performance at 60 per cent and give another 10 per cent for effort. My average assessment of devolution’s performance and workability is 70 per cent. Devolution is the mainstay of Kenya. This is on two fronts: one, devolution enhances democracy. The Constitution, in Article 174 and 175, recognises the marginalised and caters for them. Two, it recognises the right of the people to participate in the manner they are governed. Devolution gives Kenyans a chance to determine their own destiny. The country will only progress if devolution is strengthened. The BBI has come to strengthen devolution. The creation of the Ward Fund, which can only be implemented with the consensus and participation of the people, is a good step. It is not an MCA’s fund but the people's. There is nothing better than the people in every ward determining their destiny. With 35 per cent minimum share of revenue, devolution will achieve one of its core purposes – the accomplishment of Vision 2030. When President Kibaki was campaigning for devolution, he said it was our only hope of achieving Vision 2030. And truly, it is here now. I ask Kenyans to support the raising of revenue to 35 per cent. A lot of people know there is devolution and want to participate, but they don’t know what it is. They only guess what it is. I have been a proponent of the creation of a fund for civic education on matters devolution. While at the Transitional Authority, there were suggestions to continue civic education for 15 years. The government should set aside money for this. It should also empower state and non-state actors to carry out this process, taking advantage of their powerful engines. For greater success, leaders implementing devolution must manage public resources prudently. They should not be tempted to assume imperial powers and they should, particularly at the executive level, strengthen the county executive committees. The county executive should play a central role and everybody should be accommodated. Deputy governors must be given roles. County assemblies should play their role appropriately, and should not be seen to harass and blackmail the Executive. The former chairman of the defunct Transition Authority spoke to the Star