Education CS George Magoha has put on notice schools opening doors for learners other than Grade 4 pupils and KCPE and KCSE candidates. Speaking in Nyeri on Wednesday, Magoha said anyone taking in more children than the government had directed will have themselves to blame. “I want just to reassure and emphasise for the last time that the government of the Republic of Kenya has not opened schools for other children, whether you are in public, private or international school,” he said. The CS said that was the last warning for those who feel that they are bold enough to challenge the government by opening the rest of the classes without authority. He said he would demand a clean report by Thursday, adding that the government will act swiftly and should not be blamed for whatever action it takes against non-compliant institutions. He did not, however, disclose the kind of punishment to be meted out to those violating the directive. “As far as we are concerned as government, all students are equal, whether you are in private, public in a slum, or international school.” He was on an inspection tour of workshops making desks for primary and secondary schools in Nyeri county. Magoha sought to ascertain whether the desks are being made to standards. The CS was accompanied by Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu, who is also the vice-chairman of the National Assembly Education and Research committee. The government had approved a stimulus package for the Ministry of Education that included Sh1.9 billion for desks to allow social distancing. Some 653,000 desks are to be fabricated nationwide in a programme also supposed to create jobs for the youth. Magoha applauded the work being done in Nyeri. The CS told off rumourmongers and naysayers who claim they have not seen the desks. He called on the public to ignore the rumours. The desks will be distributed in the next two weeks, he said. “There are few technicians who have been incited and are returning the forms. When that happens, we follow the procurement rules and award to the next person and that process is also ongoing without any problem,” he said.