MPs and professionals from Narok and Kajiado counties have accused the Teachers Service commission of discriminating against the Maa people during the recent teachers recruitment. Led by Narok North MP Moitalel ole Kenta and his Narok South counterpart Korei ole Lemein, they said applicants from the two counties were not considered despite being qualified. They alleged the community has been sidelined in the TSC recruitment for seven years, which would be against the spirit of Chapter 4 of the Constitution. “We note that the previous recruitments, which have, at best, been a total sham, have been hugely skewed against bona fide residents of Narok and Kajiado counties and now threaten to tear the very fabric of peace loving people of the said counties,” said the leaders in a letter to TSC chairperson Dr Lydia Nzomo. Kenta said the previous recruitment has also brought deliberate acts of mischievous government officials hell-bent on perpetuating blatant marginalisation of some communities in Kenya. “This in itself is a contravention of the principle of devolution as enshrined in the Constitution of Kenya in articles  174 and 175 as well as article 27 and 56 of the Bill of rights. Moreover, the previous flawed exercise is contrary to the legitimate expectations of the people of Narok and Kajiado counties,” said Kenta. The legislator claimed that previously, only two locals out of 10 recruited by the TSC were Maasai, in a county that is predominantly Maasai. He said they will reject the exercise conducted by the TSC, saying the process was biased and they will only accept it if their demands for changes are complied with. “The interview process including dates and venues were shrouded in secrecy in a manner that allowed those qualified as far as Kericho, Kisumu, Nakuru, Kisii, Nairobi regions to travel to Narok and Kajiado for interviews which deliberately disenfranchised locals in these counties,” said Kenta. The lawmaker also noted that while the interviews, and recruitment in other counties have only members from the resident communities hired, the same has not been the case in Narok and Kajiado counties where the non-locals received huge preferential consideration over and above residents. Similar sentiments were echoed by Lemein. He demanded that the recruitment scoring formula be reviewed to give residents of Narok and Kajiado regions a fair chance at the competition. “We are filing a formal petition with the ministry of education and we will not hesitate to take the appropriate legal action if our demands are met in time,” said Lemein. Other MPs who have also accused the commission of bias are Gabriel Tongoyo (Narok West), Gideon Konchellah (Kilgoris), Ken Aramat (Narok East) and Soipan Kudate (Narok Woman Representative ).