Interior CS Fred Matiang'i has urged leaders to desists from utterances that can bring tension in our country. He was addressing faithful at Makairo SDA camp centre in Nyamira County on Saturday. Matiang'i said leaders have the role of ensuring they preach peace instead of making utterances that can create unnecessary panic and tension. "We are all leaders, let us ensure we maintain and preach peace. It seems like some of our leaders want to get us back to experience what took place in 2017. Let us not go back to that harmful past," the CS said. The CS warned those leaders who are using youths to abuse other leaders especially now that the country is in political moods. "You do not gain anything by abusing other leaders by using the youths on various social media platforms. It is useless for our leaders to engage themselves in such activities. Let us all live in harmony," the CS added. He said differences cannot be solved with hatred and abuses hurled at leaders, as youths have been poisoned to abuse other leaders. "We cannot gain superiority by hating others. That is not the right way to live. Let us strive and maintain peace and harmony," he noted. However, the CS never uttered a word in regards to the chaos that erupted on Thursday in Nyamira where police officers dispersed supporters who were waiting for Deputy President William Ruto at Kebirigo Primary School grounds. Matiang'i was with County Commissioner Amos Mariba, Woman Representative Jerusha Momanyi, Senator Okong'o Omogeni and Youth leader Brian Mamboleo. Other leaders who were with Matiang'i were, Kitutu Masaba MP Shadrack Mose, Borabu MP Ben Momanyi and several MCAs. Senator Omogeni condemned the leaders who are against CS Matiang'i for doing his job saying everybody should respect the law. "Recently, you saw police officers dispersing a crowd that was convened unlawfully and we read from a section of the media that some leaders were accusing the CS of that act," Omogeni said. "The police were doing their job, do not complain when police officers are doing what they should do, we must all obey the law."