@alalmaurice Head of Holy Ghost Coptic Church Father John Pesa has claimed that his life is in danger following a visit to Deputy President William Ruto’s home in Sugoi. Pesa said a group of people also went to his church in Kanyakwar area on the Kisumu-Kakamega road on Tuesday demanding money he got from Ruto. They said they'd kill him if he didn't give them the money. He has also been threatened on phone. "I feel my life is in danger after being threatened," Pesa said on Wednesday during a press briefing at the church. The cleric said he has reported the matter to Kondele police station in Kisumu. "Ruto is a hustler and has no money. He did not give me money," he added. Pesa, however, said he was ready to die. The cleric was part of a delegation that joined Ruto at his Sugoi home for an interdenominational service presided over by clergymen from Nyanza on Monday. They were led by Bishop Caleb Olali, the Supreme Archbishop of Nomiya Faith Churches and Johannes Angela-ACK Bishop Emeritus for Bondo. Also present were Julius Amoke, Archbishop Hera Church; George Gwada, Archbishop New Pentecostal Church; Archbishop Francis Obala of Fellowship Bible Church; and Reuben Odago, Bishop Emeritus Baptist Church, among others. Former ODM leader Raila Odinga's ally Eliud Owalo was among the delegation. The DP quoted a verse about friendship and unity. “We must go out of our way to build true bridges of friendship and unity. We must eliminate all social and economic barriers that divide us and always strive to serve all Kenyans without any form of discrimination,” he said. Ruto further said that he was inspired by a verse in the Bible. He quoted Amos 3:3. The verse says that “Do two walk together unless they have agreed to do so?” The deputy president has had a bumpy ride with President Uhuru Kenyatta since his handshake with ODM leader Raila Odinga two years ago. The DP's relentless scouting for 2022 support has put him on a collision course with the President, who says early campaigns disrupt his development agenda. Over the weekend, Uhuru made a rare joint public appearance with his deputy, where he asked for forgiveness for the wrongs he may have committed. Ruto also asked leaders to be tolerant of each other as he sought for forgiveness on behalf of the government from the church over the spots of interruptions of their services witnessed in Murang’ a, Kakamega, and Nyamira counties. “We should never witness such in a country that professes to be God-fearing. Teargas should never be near a church or worshippers,” he said.  (edited by o. owino)