The impeachment motion against Migori Governor Okoth Obado is headed for other chaotic sessions with two assembly camps already going at each other. Last week, the assembly was marred by chaos and an MCA tried to run away with the mace. Nominated MCA Mary Ogodo's left arm was broken and she was rushed to hospital.  There have been fears of similar incidents going forward. The police in Migori are, however, on high alert as tension continues to rise. On Tuesday, the assembly was adjourned until next Tuesday. The same day, seven MCAs allied to Obado were arraigned over chaos at the assembly as speaker Boaz Okoth, another ally of the county chief, was arrested. On Wednesday, the camps held separate Kamukunjis as it became apparent that the motion was ready for tabling. The pro-impeachment team, led by deputy speaker George Omamba (North Kanyamkago), remained confident that they will win. “The decision to impeach Obado was arrived at after wide consultations - the same consultations done by the top organ of the party have given us an impetus. We have the numbers,” Omamba said. The other camp, led by Kaler MCA Thomas Akungo (ODM), said the plan to impeach Obado was purely from external forces and the party will never get the required number in the assembly. “We can say the majority of MCAs who attended the Nairobi meeting when ODM ordered for the impeachment motion, are against the ouster bid. The party will never marshal the numbers,” Akungo said. Acting as speaker, MCA Samwel Orima, an Independent allied to Obado, adjourned the house until Tuesday. The seven MCAs who were arraigned in Migori are Thomas Akungo (Kaler), Brian Osodo (Kachieng), Peter Mijungu (West Kanyamkago), Alex Akugo (Central Kanyamkago), Willis Oloo (Got Kachola), Leo Ogwada (God Jope) and Nestroy Owiyo (West Sakwa). They faced charges of assault and creating a disturbance at the assembly. They appeared before principal magistrate Peter Areri and pleaded not guilty. They were released on Sh30,000 bail each, pending a hearing scheduled for October 23. Akungo and Osodo were also separately charged with assault in a separate case and were released on Sh20,000 bail each after they denied the charges. Obado and his supporters have accused ODM of intimidation tactics. They say the party is using the police and detectives to force through the ouster bid. In earlier media interviews, Obado claimed the motion has 10 points. He accused Senator Ochillo Ayacko of being behind his tribulations, claims that Ayacko dismissed. Last week, Omamba took charge as speaker during the session when MCAs allied to Obado trooped in and chaos ensued. “We are afraid that when the motion will be tabled, we will expect more violence as both sides have dug in for the long haul. We had chaos even before the motion hit the assembly,” an MCA said. Sources said the two camps don’t see eye-to-eye in the premises, with restaurants where they take meals already demarcated. “Those close to Obado only hang around and eat in a hotel associated with the governor. The others have a permanent base at another camp as lobbying intensify,” a source said.