 Kwale leaders on Tuesday asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to provide title deeds to local landowners to end historical land injustices. Speaking during Mashujaa Day celebrations in Lunga Lunga, the leaders said they had nothing to celebrate, citing "alarming land grabbings in the county". Led by National Irrigation Board director Zainab Chidzuga, the leaders said they had nothing to be proud of knowing that thousands of residents were living like squatters on their ancestral lands. Chidzuga was recognised as a county heroine during the celebrations. Former Kinondo councillor Abdallah Mambo was also honoured for heroism. Chidzuga said locals were living in fear due to intimidation and harassment by tycoons. She said outsiders have acquired title deeds forcing inhabitants out of their ancestral lands. “People who came the other day have land documents yet residents don’t have. How is that even possible,” she said. The former Kwale Woman Representative said the best gift the government can give residents is title deeds. She said residents were tired of land grabbing and asked the President to intervene. Lunga Lunga MP Khatib Mwashetani said about 65 per cent of Kwale residents were squatters. He said the land grabbing problem had become a major concern and asked the national government to intervene. Mwashetani said locals were unhappy with threats of evictions. The MP is the vice-chairman of the National Assembly's Lands Committee. He said the panel was already handling some land disputes. Governor Salim Mvurya said his administrations was determined to end land problems. He said he won’t tolerate injustices. “All those fake titles issued to land grabbers will be revoked and lawbreakers will be dealt with in court,” Mvurya said. County commissioner Karuku Ngumo had earlier said some locals were cheaply selling their land. Mvurya cautioned locals against selling lands at throw-away prices. He said his government won’t renew any licences for the leased lands and that all will be returned to community ownership. 