Suffering, selfish, sinful Kenya needs God's healing and forgiveness. That was the message on Saturday of the inter-faith National Prayer Weekend, filled with soul-searching questions for both political leaders and the people. There's the coronavirus that has claimed more than 700 lives and crippled the economy, there's corruption, greed, tribalism, escalating political scheming on all sidea and violence. And it looks as though another plague of locusts is on the way. The "sons of disobedience" were warned the wrath of God is coming. Scriptures, songs, and prayers calling for national unity and restoration dominated the function at State House, Nairobi. “Corruption and tribalism are blocking our prayers. Are you playing a role in alienating Kenya from God or bringing her closer?” Bishop Alfred Rotich asked in his preamble to the service. Kenya, like many other countries, has been holding national prayer rallies but falls back into the same divisive trends, he said. “Who is corrupt, who is tribal? Is it you and I who are coming here to pray? We are fighting corruption and tribalism and those are the blocks of our prayers. What is it that you want to do?” the bishop asked. “Therefore, put to death your members which are on the earth: fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desires and covetousness, which is idolatry. "Because of these things the wrath of God is coming upon the sons of disobedience, in which you yourselves once walked when you lived in them,” he read from the Book of Colossians. The bishop emphasised that evil desires and servishness are dividing people and breeding violence and intolerance. Master of ceremonies Bishop avid Oginde compared Kenya to the ship Jonah in the Bible had boarded when he strayed from God's mission and fled. “Kenya is a ship facing huge storms. We are facing a violent storm, the captain, the President,  has called us to call upon our God, so He may hear us so we do not perish. Every Kenyan should call on his God,” he said. The Bishop urged Kenyans to be like ostriches who stick together at all times, fighting to protect each other. They are also known for sticking their heads in the ground and hiding from the truth but the bishop said they are not hiding. “The Ostrich walks in pairs for safety, and the priority is to protect their eggs and chicks. They bury their heads in the sand only to protect that,” he said. “When attacked, they never disperse. They stick together because they are taughtt hat separation makes them easy prey. Their mother spreads her wings to protect them while the father chases away the danger. That is how we should live in Kenya." Islamic leader Ambassador Mohammed Mahat urged Kenyans to unite as God  had brought them together despite differences that appeared irreconcilable in 2018. The meeting was attended by President Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy PresidentWilliam Ruto, First Lady Margaret Kenyatta, Mama Ngina Kenyatta, ministers, ambassadors and political leaders. The hymns drawn from Psalm were sung in Swahili, reinforcing the message of unity as the congregants sought national salvation from the choronavirus. “O Lord, You have searched me and known me. "You know my sitting down and my rising up; "You understand my thought afar off. "Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; It is high, I cannot attain it,” they sang. Religious imagery is common currency in Kenya and the world at large. After the second prayer meeting this year, many Kenyans probably hope their servant leaders will realise their sacred role in serving the people. (Edited by V. Graham)