Record champions Gor Mahia will launch their Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Premier League(FKF-PL) title defence away to former champions Tusker on November 21, according to the tentative fixtures released yesterday. The fixtures are subject to review depending on whether the government will okay the resumption of football activities. The match will mark the return of top flight matches to the Kinoru Stadium which has been earmarked as Tusker's home ground. Similarly, the clash pitting returnees Nairobi City Stars and Nzoia Sugar will be the first to be staged at the refurbished Nyayo National Stadium. Gor, who will be chasing their 20th title, have been handed a tough start as they are scheduled to face four-time champions Ulinzi Stars in their subsequent match before taking on 2008 champions Mathare United in their third encounter. Roberto Oliveira's charges will close their first five matches against 2009 winners Sofapaka and debutants Bidco United. K'Ogalo are also set to play the first leg of preliminary round of the Caf Champions League between November 27-29. The return leg is planned for between December 4-6. Gor's bitter rivals AFC Leopards are lined to begin their quest to end their two decade trophy drought against Western Stima at Nyayo Stadium while Ulinzi will host the winner of the KPL/FKF playoff at Afraha Stadium. Kisumu All Stars, who finished third from bottom in the past top flight season and third place National Super League finishers Vihiga United, will lock horns in a two- legged encounter to determine which team will keep a slot in the elite football league. Posta Rangers will open the new season against Bidco United at the Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos while Sofapaka will tackle KCB at the Narok Stadium. Bandari will play Zoo FC at Mbaraki Stadium as Mathare United host Kakamega Homeboyz at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani before paving way for Kariobangi Sharks to face Wazito at the same venue. The first leg of the Mashemeji Derby is designed to be played on March 21 at the Nyayo National Stadium, where Leopards will be the hosts. Gor are set to hold the return match at the same venue on May 21. Meanwhile, the Betway FKF Shield Cup is programmed to serve off on the weekend of January 15-17 from the round of 64. The round of 32 is set to be played between February 5-7 while the round of 16 will take place between April 16-18. The first match of the 2022 Fifa World Cup qualifier is planned for June 4-8 with the subsequent one taking place between June 11-15. Harambee Stars are placed in Group E of the qualifiers alongside Mali, Uganda and Rwanda.