Garissa Town MP Aden Duale has reiterated his support for Deputy President William Ruto in the 2022 general elections. Duale said his respect for both President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy is still solid even after being ejected as the Majority Leader in the National Assembly. The MP said he has a political bond with Ruto, whom he said he has had a long journey with since their time in ODM party. “I believe in the ideology of one William Samoei Ruto. I have s history with him. I joined ODM with him…to me, Ruto is not an ordinary politician. He is a buddy, a friend, and a political ally and a political partner,” Duale said. He made his stand during a Sunday interview on the 'Hot seat' YouTube channel. Duale advised Ruto to be strong amidst political differences inside the Jubilee Party. He said he will exhaust all means to campaign for William Ruto, including rallying the pastoralist communities to support him. The MP said that he believed that the president will declare his support for Ruto when the right time comes. He added that they will use any means, be it a 'reformed Jubilee' or any other party to pave way for the DP. "As the Patron of the Partrolist Parliamentary Group, as a prominent leader in the Somali community, we will convince our people that the right person to succeed Uhuru in the opinion of Duale...based on the performance track record Ruto is the man to beat." Speaking about his next move in politics, the outspoken legislator said that he is focusing on drumming up support for Ruto across the country. "To make sure that he garners the highest number of votes, that he gets the highest number of votes in both the National Assembly and the Senate, in the County Assemblies and the gubernatorial seats." He added that he also has a secret agenda for the Garissa people which will only be revealed once the current parliamentary calendar term is over. Duale added that the biggest threat facing devolution in the country is corruption being perpetrated by governors. He added that there are a number of issues to be addressed, from the distribution of resources to counties, education in the north, extrajudicial and forced disappearances. Garissa Town MP described the ruling party Jubilee as a ‘shell party’ following its current wrangles, saying that the party is no longer following its initial objectives. “It’s very unfortunate that today that party is a shell. Let me be very candid, it’s a shell. It doesn’t believe in its constitution, it doesn’t believe in its manifesto, it has not done elections since it was formed,” Duale said. Duale has said that Jubilee has not held about four Parliamentary Group Meetings chaired by the president.