 The National Treasury has been criticised for frequent delays in releasing cash to counties, with Governor Sospeter Ojaamong saying such setbacks were causing friction between county bosses and residents. Ojaamong on Sunday said delays in disbursing cash to counties had led to stalled projects, causing Kenyans to believe that governors had failed to deliver. He said the Treasury’s decision to hold onto money supposed to be sent to counties had disrupted their operations. “We need to be truthful to Kenyans. President Uhuru Kenyatta signed the County Revenue Sharing Bill, 2020, to sanction disbursement of funds to counties, but nothing is forthcoming to date,” Ojaamong said. He added, “The scenario has put governors on a collision course with county residents. There is a need for a paradigm shift to reverse the trend.” The National Treasury has been under pressure from senators over the late disbursement of cash to counties, a trend the lawmakers said had become rampant. In July, the senators said late disbursements had crippled county budgets and disrupted programmes. They slammed the Treasury for holding onto the counties’ cash, saying the trend was hurting budget implementation in the devolved governments. They also said counties had been forced to accrue huge pending bills because of the erratic exchequer releases. The senators spoke after it was revealed the Treasury closed the 2019-20 financial year without disbursing Sh68 billion to the counties. According to a status report for 2019-20 cash releases as of June 30, the Treasury was yet to release Sh68.15 billion out of the Sh375.59 billion that was allocated to the counties during the year. The senators criticised the development, saying the Treasury was embarrassing the counties besides disruption of plans. “From June, we have not received money,” Ojaaamong said at St Gabriel Catholic Church in Nangina ward in Busia. “Without money, how are we going to serve the people? But they keep on saying that money has been sent. If it has been disbursed, where is it? Those are just lies.” In September, Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya asked counties to suspend operations until they received their revenue allocations. His call followed a delay in the approval of the revenue-sharing bill by the Senate. Ojaamong said Kenyans should be given adequate time to read and understand the BBI report before making independent decisions about proposals contained in the document. “Our hope is on BBI because it will help us solve some of these issues. Leaders are not bad, what is bad is the law that we have,” Ojaamong said. He added, “People need to be involved and enlightened on the contents of the BBI and how it will benefit them, not to make noise on what they don't know.”  Edited by P.O