The DPP has opposed a bid by the defence in lawyer Willie Kimani murder case to expunge Peter Ngugi’s DNA evidence from the matter. The DNA samples being contested are for the cigarette butts that were found at the scene of the murder. They link Ngugi to the crime. In the case, four Administration Police officers Fredrick — Leliman, Sylvia Wanjiru, Leonard Mwangi and Stephen Cheburet — and police informer Ngugi were charged with the murder of Kimani, his client Josephat Mwenda and driver Joseph Muiruri. The victims' bodies were found afloat in River Ol Donyo Sabuk. Ngugi’s lawyer Kevin Michuki wants the court to strike out his client's DNA, saying he did not consent to it and is therefore inadmissible. However, assistant DPP Nicholas Mutuku opposed the application by Ngugi, arguing that due process was followed when his DNA samples were taken. Mutuku told Justice Jessie Lessit that when the accused was presented at the Government Chemist he cooperated and the sampling was done. He further argued that the issue of consent does not arise as had been alleged by Ngugi. According to the state, a police officer of above the rank of inspector may order an accused to undergo DNA sampling and he may do it in writing or otherwise. In one of the affidavits by investigating officer Clement Mwangi, he says Ngugi cooperated with them and the swabs were taken. Mwangi says they were collecting buccal swabs for DNA testing to help ascertain if he had links to the murder of the three. Mwangi said on August 29, 2016, they were instructed by chief inspector Robert Owino to present Ngugi to his office at the flying squad. When they took him there, Owino said the suspect needed to undergo a DNA sampling at the Government Chemist. “I explained to Ngugi that he was required to undergo a DNA procedure, which would either confirm or disprove that he was involved in the offence under investigations,” Owino says. In response, Ngugi’s lawyer asked the court to expunge the DNA samples evidence that has been produced in court on grounds that the police informer never gave his consent to the DNA sampling. Michuki further argued that there was no written consent produced in court to show that Ngugi agreed to the procedure. He further asked the court to note that Lucy Warukira deponed that she was the one who took the sample but forgot to sign a name of the DNA sample. “Your honour, what is adduced are samples taken on July 15, 2016, does not speak on actions carried out on August 29, 2016,” Muchuki said. He alleges that on August 29 Ngugi was not in the custody of the investigation officers as has been alleged because he had been charged on August 28 and remanded in prison, not a police station. The case resumes Tuesday when the accused are expected to make a fresh bail application. They say because of Covid-19, the court should reconsider their applications.