National Super League side Shabana FC have said a bus donation from President Uhuru Kenyatta will be an inspiration enough to battle for promotion to the Kenyan Premier League next season. President Uhuru, while in the company of former Prime Minister Raila Odinga, gave the team a 62-seater bus and Sh5 million with Raila adding Sh1 million. Shabana vice chairman Nyandoro Kambi, who received the donation from the President on behalf of the team said the donations of cash and a bus were a big relief to the cash-strapped side. “This is a big relief. It has lessened our burden and our target now is to return to the Kenyan Premier League, where we belong. I want to thank President Uhuru and Raila for this kind gesture. I also want to thank Kisii Governor James Ongwae and his Nyamira counterpart for raising our issues to the President,” said Kambi. Kambi, a Nairobi-based advocate, added: “I want to promise here today that Shabana will rise again. We intend to strengthen the squad ahead of next season. The money which we were using in hiring buses for transport will now go to paying allowances for both the players and the technical bench.” “Governor Ongwae and (Nyamira Governor John Obiero) Nyagarama told me that this team unites and touches the heart of Omogusii. As we celebrate our heroes, let us also celebrate Shabana by giving the team a bus which will help them in honouring away matches. You can now travel to any part of the country with ease," said President Uhuru at the Kisii State Lodge. He asked Shabana players to work hard and encourage fellow youth to do the same. “When you go out there, talk to fellow youth so that they can stay away from drugs like bhang,” said the President. The President also asked Sports Minister Amina Mohamed to allocate funds for further rehabilitation of Gusii Stadium. “The playing field has a problem which should be rectified. It gets water-logged during rains and since this region enjoys rains all year round, it sometimes becomes unplayable. It should have a proper drainage system and I am asking CS Amina to allocate funds for that work,” the President said. Amina congratulated Shabana for beating AFC Leopards 1-0 to lift Mashujaa Day Cup. Kisii County FKF Chairman Jezreel Mbegera also thanked the President and former PM for their donations. He challenged Shabana players to work hard and earn promotion to the top tier. “Transport has been their biggest challenge. It’s now sorted and we expect the team in the Kenya Premier League in the near future,” said Mbegera.