The government is putting mechanisms in place to ensure work in the public sector is digitally driven and innovative. Public Service Principal Secretary Mary Kimonye on Wednesday said this will play a key role in strengthening government’s universal application of ICT in service delivery and record management. Speaking during a webinar of future of work, diaspora and gender prospects, Kimonye said so far most of the state departments are embracing automated performance contracting where employees are evaluated on targets signed. Kimonye said though the current coronavirus pandemic has presented unique challenges in the public service sector, through one government approach and right leadership by President Uhuru Kenyatta, the sector had managed to sail through. “We have had a Covid committee bringing together key stakeholders who formulated policy guidelines to ensure no disruption of services in the public sector,” she said. Kimonye said there have been little disruptions which were occasioned in the first week when containment measures were announced. “When we developed the work from home policies, we have had guidelines that have effectively managed service delivery. Most of these services have been delivered online,” she said. “Our remote stations amid efforts to contain the disease have taught us that with self regulating at an individual level with minimum supervision, work can be done and targets met,” Kimonye added. She said through remote stations, many state departments had embraced technology and developed innovative services. “This has played a key role in saving cost in terms of paper wastage and other things. We have also saved time by reducing the long meetings and spent fewer resources in terms of space and building,” she said. According to the PS, going forward, a consultative and collaborative partnership between all state departments will be key in achieving the digital working environment. She, however, said the work from home protocols had increased cases of mental health within the public service. The PS said this has manifested itself in an increase in cases of gender violence and teenage pregnancies. “We have however embarked on tele-counselling social-circle support for those who have been affected. The president has pumped in a lot of money to handle the situation and we are committed to zero tolerance on any form of violence,” she added. Kimonye said most of the cases are as a result of the extra burden on the workload on many livelihoods. “Many need economic empowerment and financial support. We are concerned especially with the current school closures has increased burden on women who have to juggle between work and taking care of the children,” she said.