ODM leader Raila Odinga has said the government has plans to create employment through projects, adding they should not depend on tokenism from politicians. He said there were  projects ongoing like the Rironi-Marsabit highway which was going to be done as a toll road; there is also Marsabit through Kisumu -Busia to connect the port which would provide various opportunities. The rehabilitation of the meter gauge railway-line is ongoing (Nakuru- Kisumu) to bring goods from the Naivasha terminal where SGR terminates to port of Kisumu for onword transshipment across the lake to Northern Tanzania port of Musoma, Mwanza Bukoba and Jinja in Uganda which will hep access markets in DRC , Congo and Burudi. He said the railway rehabilitation continue all the way from Kisumu to Butere that will make transportation of goods more efficient and also spur the economy of the region. “This is to create meaningful jobs to our youths across this regions and not tokenism”. Raila also said once the Port of Kisumu is operational, young people will be engaged in different sectors. Raila was speaking in Kisumu on Thursday when he inspected the ongoing construction of Sh350 million Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium which is expected to be completed within the next six months. ON BBI Raila said the country is in the process of the third liberation and BBI was part of it that is going to come up with way forward. “Let them wait and see once it's launched. It's not about giving jobs to five people but bringing solutions to a number of issues that are contentious right now”. Some of this issues he said were bringing of more resources back to the counties so that they can create more jobs for the youths. The ODM leader noted that the national cake has not been expanding to keep pace with population growth in the country which is currently at 47 million. “Unless we continue to bake this cake to make it possible for people to eat, many of our people will continue to go hungry. So we must address the issue of growing the cake rather than just eating from it,” Raila said. He hit out at DP William Ruto for 'throwing crumbs' to the youth. "Hold your horses, continue with your wheelbarrows because we are actually going to operationalise BBI", he said