Campaigns are hotting up for the representative of magistrates and judges in the Judicial Service Commission. The position is reserved for women and four have been cleared to vie in the December 5 election. They are Stella Atambo, Everlyne Olwande, Dolphina Alego and Florence Macharia. Kiambu's Therresah Nyangena’s nomination was rejected for failing to meet the requirements. The candidates and their allies are seeking the support of Kenya Magistrates and Judges Association that has nominated them for the contest. KMJA secretary general Derick Kuto said he was under intense pressure to endorse a candidate for membership of the JSC. Kuto is a popular figure among magistrates and judges and his endorsement of a candidate would be crucial. He and others successfully sued the Salaries and Remuneration Commission over pay for judicial officers. Kuto told the Star that some aspirants for membership of the JSC had reached out to him seeking his endorsement. He said that some magistrates wanted his advice on which candidate they should vote for. "Yes it's true. A large number of magistrates are asking for my direction on whom they should vote for. I have been approached but we are not yet there. I cannot openly tell you that we are supporting a specific candidate, but some of our members want us to speak," he told the Star. Kuto said all the cleared candidates are of good character and hardworking but  maintained that only one  of them will carry the day. "All the four aspirants are our own members. They are of good integrity, morals and character," he said. He said it was difficult to openly speak out  on the matter with confidence but he needed time to clarify. "Personally, I need time to clarify  some of these things. We are aware that the position our colleagues are vying for requires a vibrant, active and independent-minded person. We wish all of them well but as I said some of them have reached out to me for support" he said. Kuto said the  Judiciary, too, experiences politics which must be well calculated for better service delivery. "JSC makes a lot of decisions which may directly or indirectly affect the common citizens. Our members should make a good decision," he said. A female  magistrate when asked about whom she wanted elected to the position  said the SG will direct her on  the matter. She said that she wanted Kuto to vie for the position but the position had been reserved for female magistrates. "Why should Kuto vie  for a slot reserved for women?  We are currently fighting for the two-thirds gender rule and that's why the honorable CJ advised the President to dissolve Parliament. We want to empower women and we support them during this time," Kuto said. It is expected that about 500 magistrates will vote for one of their colleagues to represent them at the powerful 11-member JSC. Magistrates are currently represented at the JSC by chief magistrate Emily Ominde who has held that position since 2015. Edited by Henry Makori