Tension is high at the Mombasa County Assembly after seven MCAs and one staffer tested positive for Covid-19. A two-week recess for the MCAs has now further been extended by 14 more days. They were to go back to work on Monday. Earlier, Deputy speaker Fadhili Makarani said three MCAs had tested positive, adding that the 14 days might be extended to 21 days due to the surging numbers of Covid-19. “We have three MCAs and a few staff who tested positive and that is why we decided to extend the recess because the whole place needs to be fumigated. People have been given two weeks to go for self-isolation,” said Makarani. However, Speaker Kharub Khatri later confirmed seven MCAs and one staffer had tested positive. Employees at the assembly now say they have been kept in the dark and are prone to infection following allegations that the testing exercise was halted since it was ‘costly’. However, Makarani said that there are staff who are still at work because they all need to be tested. “I am not in denial that our people are at risk but we need to test them and if the situation gets worse, we will close the assembly," said Makarani. Covid-19, he said, comes with stigma and thus, they did not want to raise alarm as they have few manageable numbers. He said that the county assembly leadership will take the necessary steps to ensure that everyone gets tested. "If the test kits will be available, the testing process among all staffs will end this week,” said Makarani. Public Health officials also said that they charge Sh2,000 per person if an institution requests for testing, but added that mass testing or contact tracing, is normally free. Makarani had earlier said that they consulted the Ministry of Health and decided as leaders that people should be tested and in case of any positive cases, they will consult on the way forward. Likoni MCA Athman Mwamiri said that in case of confirmed cases, the House will have to be adjourned for 21 days. The County Assembly Public Relations Officer, Aisha William told the Star she is not aware of the information but asked for time to get back to us. Our efforts to interview the speaker were futile as we were not allowed to enter his office due to Covid-19 issues, and by the time of going to press, he had not responded to our calls.