Celebrated female artiste Wahu Kagwi has come out to share she was molested by her cousin when she was only nine years old. The singer, in an IGTV post, said she is still hurt to date thinking about what her cousin did to her. "When I was nine-years-old, I was sexually molested by my cousin. My mum had left me in his custody. I was nine and he was probably 19 or 20. We were in shagz (upcountry) and my mum left me in his custody and she went to the shamba. She just said take care of her and I'll be back. The guy molested me," a teary Wahu said. She added that his apology was not genuine and he in turn said that she also touched him. "He touched me very inappropriately and I was angry and while apologizing he said, 'Sorry, then si you touched me the same way. I was nine years old. It still hurts, still upsets me when I think about it.' My mum was trusting her nephew to take care of her child, she had just gone to pick sukuma wiki and of course you don't think your nephew could molest your child," Wahu went on. Wahu explained that she is talking about this at this moment because parents need to be careful whom they let around their homes or children. "I'm saying this now because as parents we have to be more watchful, careful who we let into the space of our homes, our children. "I think I'm more particularly concerned as a mother of girls. I can't just let any guy into my house and even entrusting them with somebody." She added, "You know just that one innocent act can lead to a lifetime of a young girl growing up with pain, anger, trust issues." "My message is to us as parents. You should just be more hands-on when it comes to caring for our children. Don't trust anyone because they're relatives because they're the worst. Most of the people who have been sexually molested are young persons and by relatives." The singer urged those who may have been molested to speak up and asked parents to be very mindful of whom to entrust with their children. "Incase you've been a victim of sexual molestation I want you to know... you are not alone. Don't suffer in silence. Please speak out and parents I beg us.... let's be very mindful of whom we entrust with our children...if you need someone to talk to , there's a toll free number..call ...0800 722 022 it's free. Don't let your experience kill you. hugs ❤️," she advised.