The Kenyan Premier League two-legged promotion lay offs between Vihiga United and Kisumu All Stars has been suspended until further notice. The matches were scheduled for October 7 and 11 and where the winner is meant to grace the forthcoming KPL championship. Vihiga United coach Sammy Okoth said they received a communique from FKF revealing that the match has been suspend in view of the current restrictions on football activities due to Covid-19 containment measures. "FKF, in their letter, cited that Covid-19 Pandemic as the major reason why they have suspended the playoffs," said Okoth. The 2019/2020 KPL season ended prematurely last season, again due to the virus with All Stars finishing 16th on the log while United could only manage a third-place finish in the National Super League. However, Okoth was happy with the decision to postpone the match since he is worried of his players' match preparedness since they have been training individually. “The suspension of the match has also helped since we can't tell whether our players are preparing or not since we have not been together for a long," said the coach. He added that even though he has been sharing training programs with his players, monitoring all of them remotely has been impossible. Meanwhile, National Super League side Vihiga Bullets are staring at disbandment due to lack of funds. Players and staff at the club have gone months without pay and have struggled to assemble for pre-season due to the Covid-19 situation, according to CEO Collins Juma. “After enduring suffering for quite some time, we are now forced to bring to the attention of the public the challenges we are experiencing, particularly financial and make an appeal to potential sponsors to come in and rescue us,” Juma said. He added that the club solely relies on small donations from the community since its inception in 2018, but in the wake of Covid-19 that has hit everyone hard, it has become difficult for them to operate or raise funds to run their activities. “Vihiga people have been very supportive and should not give up on the team at this trying moment, when we badly need them. Let’s all continue giving necessary support as we move forward,” he said. Juma warned that the club is facing the danger of losing some of their star players which will will weaken them and demotivate other players, thus throwing their ambitions of gracing KPL into disarray