KTDA  was on Monday dealt a blow in its bid to conduct the election of the Ndarawetta zone director in Bomet after the High Court temporarily stopped it. Through conservatory orders, Bomet High Court judge Roselyne Korir suspended the election for the next 30 days. Petitioner Kipngeno Rono has accused the Kenya Tea Development Agency of rigging him out of the election scheduled for November 3. Rono wanted KTDA restrained from nominating directors and that the resolution of the verification and dispute resolution committee be stayed. He had further sought orders to have the agency compelled to produce minutes of the deliberation of the committee that rejected his candidacy terming it illegal and unconstitutional. In the court documents, Rono said his candidacy was rejected on September 30 on grounds that he is not of good standing in society despite meeting all the requirements. He argued that the decision to reject his candidacy was not only arbitrary but also contravened his right to a fair administrative action and was premised on allegations since he has a valid police certificate of good conduct. “The said rejection was unlawful and had no basis since the process was biased and was never afforded an opportunity to present my case,” read the documents in part. Kapkoros Tea Factory, management services and dispute resolution committee chairman, who are listed as respondents, were represented by lawyer Millimo Muthomi. The case will now  be heard on November 11. The judge also ordered the parties to file their responses and other necessary affidavits before the date. KTDA, however, opposed the application by the petitioner saying the decision to bar him was a result of integrity issues raised against him. But lawyer Rogers Mugumya expressed his happiness over the decision, saying the move to lock out his client was in bad faith. Mugumya said it was sad that KTDA, which is a private entity but owned by the farmers, used skewed means to ensure a candidate of their choice wins the election unopposed. Edited by EKibii