Meru governor Kiraitu Murungi has committed to pay hospital insurance fees for all Mau Mau fighters in his county. “My government will enlist all Mau Mau veterans into NHIF programme to ensure their families don't struggle with their healthcare,” Kiraitu said yesterday when he presided over the Meru Honors and Awards Symposium in Meru town. The ceremony was also attended by the families of Meru Mau Mau fighters Field Marshall Mwariama and General Baimungi. "Through this symposium, we want to bring them back to life. We want to feel them. We want to recapture the emotions of their times. I did not have any personal experience with General Mwariama. I believe Mwenda Thiribi will have a lot to tell us about him," he said. This, he said, was to celebrate and honor the heroes and heroines of Meru County even as the country marks this year's Mashujaa Day in Kisii County. The county boss announced plans to rename some Meru town streets in honor of the fighters. "These stories of struggle and sacrifice, for freedom and social justice, are seriously needed today, when there is so much looting, poverty and landlessness in Kenya. We are here to make a statement. Even we Meru’s fought for independence. Our heroes who fought, suffered and died for us should always be remembered, honored and celebrated," he said. Kiraitu said this was as a way to maintain values and virtues espoused by the Meru Mau Mau fighters such as Field Marshall Mwariama and General Baimungi, who fought and made ultimate sacrifice for the people of Meru and Kenya at large. “Two streets in Meru town will be named after the two Mau Mau heroes, Mwariama and Baimungi. We have chosen to recognize and honor Meru heroes and heroines who fought for our freedom and independence because the virtues and attributes they demonstrated during their lives such as self-sacrifice, bravery, loyalty, patriotism and love for their people are extremely vital in this age when the society is bedeviled by vices of corruption, land-grabbing, selfishness, hate and violence among others," said Governor Kiraitu._ He added that his government, through the Honors and Awards Committee, will identify and bestow various awards on high achievers in Meru who have excelled in different disciplines such as education, governance and leadership as well as social development, among others.