 MPs will revisit the Sh4 billion fertiliser procurement mess at the National Cereals and Produce Board to unravel what actually transpired. The 2012 tender to supply and deliver 30,000 tonnes of Diamonium Phosphate (DAP) fertiliser was awarded to Export Trading Company through direct procurement. The National Assembly’s Agriculture Committee has taken over the matter after nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi questioned the manner in which the tender was awarded. Osotsi said the procurement was done in disregard of the law at the influence of powerful individuals in government. He said the procuring entity did not obtain the Attorney General advisory before proceeding with the award of tender. “A total of Sh4 billion of public funds was lost through this unilateral and unlawful action. To date, no action has been taken on the perpetrators of this crime,” Osotsi said. He added, “These individuals have deep connections within the government. For instance, the then Inspector General of Police stopped the DCI from investigating the matter for reasons known to him.” The lawmaker claimed the fertiliser delivered was of low quality and led to massive crop failure that season. “Farmers have been suffering silently because of such unscrupulous dealings that only benefit the few rich people who use their influence and positions in society to cut deals. To add salt to the injury, when farmers raised the matter of the low-quality fertiliser, the then CS for Agriculture ignored their pleas.” The committee chaired by Moiben MP Silas Tiren will look into the matter to ascertain the issues raised on the tendering process. The tender was advertised by the NCPB on November 23, 2011. At the time of tender opening, 11 interested firms had returned their bids as required. They included MEA Ltd, Pabari Distributors, Yara Switzerland, Export Trading Co. Ltd, Holbud Ltd, Euroworld Commodities, Afri Ventures FZE, Helicon Corporations Inc., Stradilor Ltd, Saudi, Industrial Export and Farmers World Limpopo. After a preliminary evaluation, only Afri Ventures FZE, Pabari Distributors, Export Trading Co. Ltd and MEA Ltd were qualified to proceed to the technical evaluation where Afri Ventures FZE attained the requisite 70 marks and above to proceed to the financial evaluation. According to the Public Procurement Administrative Review Board's documents, the tender was cancelled by the tender committee which instead resolved to directly procure during its January 19, 2012 meeting. “Accordingly, the board finds that the conditions stipulated under Section 74(3) of the Act that permit procuring entities to use direct procurement were not met, and therefore this limb of the ground of appeal succeeds,” reads the PPARB ruling issued in March 2012.   Edited by P.O