Women and their children in Njumbi Karathe village, Maragua constituency, are bearing the brunt of increased alcohol and drugs abuse. They have accused police officers of laxity and failure to curtail the widespread sale of drugs and illicit brews as many of their men spend nights in ditches — dead drunk. Peddlers have a field day despite lives being at stake. Many are the time women are called at the dead of the night to collect their husbands from the roadsides. They say the situation has become unbearable as their husbands sell their items and assets to get money to support their lives in the abyss of addiction. They have called for the intervention of security agents. Mariam Muthoni said men are caught in a spiral of addiction and have abdicated their parental and marital responsibilities. "We are very angry. We are now forced to bring up our children alone because men are always drunk," she said. On Sunday, a group of young men raided and destroyed a den. The peddlers fled to Saba Saba town but later regrouped and returned to the village on a revenge mission. They were on four motorcycles. They identified one of the youths who had dreadlocks at a local barbershop. As the rest of those at the shop fled, they wrestled their target to the ground and cut him in the ribs using an axe, before walking away. Residents soon went after them and arrested one, who was handed over to the police and later released under unclear circumstances. Others rushed the victim to Maragua hospital where he is still recovering. At Saba Saba police station where residents went for a P3 form, they had to wait for more than 30 minutes as the victim bled, only to be told that the officer at the report desk could not record their statements. Faridah Njeri, the victim's mother, could not hold back her tears as she explained how she found her son writhing in pain in a pool of blood. "I want justice for my son. When I found him, he was dying and is still in a bad state," she said. Two other young men have suffered a similar fate at the hands of the peddlers. The youth have now been taking turns to guard the village at night over fears of more attacks by the peddlers. Ngige, one of the people who raided the den, says he now has to carry a machete all the time for protection and does not sleep in his house for fear of attack. He is a marked man but says they will not rest until they secure the village from the peddlers. He urged young people to unite to end the illegal trade and save lives. "We don't deny that we, too, have been consuming these things but we are fed up and we want them gone," he said. Jane Muthoni said the peddlers bribe police officers and are released the same day they are arrested. She said because of bhang and illicit brews, the village has an influx of "alien youths" and their presence heightens insecurity. She pointed out that the peddlers once attacked an assistant chief and cut off from her back a suspended jerrycan of chang'aa she had confiscated. "We want security. Now we can't even keep chickens because they are always stolen as men look for money for the drugs," she said. Moses Ndung'u said the peddlers have been recruiting schoolboys to help them in the trade, warning that the future of the village is at risk if drastic action is not taken. "How can a few people be allowed to terrorise our village and attack people at will, yet no action is taken?" Ndung'u asked, appealing for government assistance. MP Mary Waithera gave the county security team seven days to arrest the peddlers and transfer the local police station boss, failing which she will mobilise residents to demonstrate and close down the station. The lawmaker said all security issues in the area stem from alcoholism and bhang smoking. She accused the local police officers of abetting the crime. She said the peddlers bribe the police officers and that has emboldened them as they confidently conduct their illegal trade. Similar challenges are facing Maisha Mathi village where chang'aa brewers attacked a chief early this year and destroyed the evidence he had confiscated. "They pay small boys Sh200 to peddle bhang and cause locals to live in misery," she said, noting that she has visited county commissioner Mohamed Barre twice over the matter. If the police refuse to help, women will mobilise themselves and guard the village as they will not allow criminals to ravage their area, Waithera said. She said Saba Saba police station has become a Kangaroo court where criminals are vindicated and allowed to terrorise residents.