After a battery failure during the first launch on Independence Day 1970, an X-ray satellite dubbed Uhuru from the Italian owned space centre in Malindi was successfully launched to space. According to the Kenya Space Agency, Uhuru, also known as Small Astronomical Satellite 1, was specifically designed for X-ray astronomy. “Uhuru was a scanning mission that performed the first comprehensive survey of the entire sky for X-ray sources and ended in March 1973,” the agency said. The satellite was launched from the Luigi Broglio space centre that was established after the Italian Space Agency and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration approached Kenya with a desire to launch rockets as near the equator as possible in the early 1960s. “Over 20 years sounding rockets and nine satellites were launched from the facility between 1967 and 1988,” it said. The space agency launched its Strategic Plan 2020-25 in Nairobi. It is aimed at guiding their delivery of space services in Kenya. The agency also awarded Sh1 million research grants to the Technical University of Kenya, the Jomo Kenyatta University of Agricultural Technology, Taita Taveta, Nairobi, Eldoret, Kenyatta, Dedan Kimathi and Moi universities to continue space science research. Some of the services include earth observation to help monitor the environment, navigation and positioning to determine routes. Others are satellite communications to connect remote locations and the development, launch and operations of spacecraft in space. “Space science and technology will also benefit telemedicine by using space technology to take health services to remote parts of the country, education by enhancing distance learning and weather forecasting, climate change mitigation and adaptation,” the agency said. Speaking at the event, Defence CS Monica Juma said the launch sets Kenya on the path to a focused and structured engagement with space science. Juma said the value of space science to Kenya is indisputable. “Since our Independence, Kenya has been part of space development and in May 2019, Kenya became a space fairing country after its first satellite was deployed into orbit from the International Space Agency,” she said. The satellite named 1st Kenya University Nano Satellite was built as part of the capacity building and research programmes in space science and technology currently conducted in Kenyan universities. Juma added she would be keen to ensure the Kenya Space Agency delivered on its promise to Kenyans.