Former Tigania West MP Dr Kilemi Mwiria has said he is no longer interested in the governor's seat, but will seek to become a Member of National Assembly in 2022. He ran for Meru governor in 2013 and lost to CS Peter Munya and 2017 when he lost to Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi. Mwiria says he will now try  to unseat the current Tigania West MP John Mutunga. Kilemi, a former education assistant minister, is now the chairman Kenya National Qualifications Authority. He pledged to support Governor Kiraitu in 2022. “I will be on the ballot in 2022. If you chased the governor could he have constructed into Cabro pavements the Kianjai market? I will support the governor for realisation of development,” he said. Kilemi said what he intended to achieve as Meru governor is on course through the current governor. Speaking at Kianjai when he reconciled with Governor Kiraitu after commissioning upgraded Kianjai market on Friday, Kilemi said there are many challenges in Tigania, and area leaders should unite to end them. “The multi-million Kianjai market upgrade was in sorry state, my administration has also delivered water in the area, improved roads and other infrastructure and processes are underway to ensure more is done,” Kiraitu said. Kiraitu said Kilemi is a development-oriented leader and has passion to help not only to Meru youths but also Kenyans at large. “This university, (Meru University of Science and Technology) didn’t come here by its own, Kilemi lobbied. I thank President Uhuru for retaining him as his advisor on matters education. We will work together to develop Tigania,” Kiraitu said. On Building Bridges Initiative, Kiraitu said he fully supports the initiative due to the increase on sharable revenue added from 15-35 per cent and the creation of ward fund. “I am also happy with the just released BBI report which will increase funds to the counties and enable me to bring even more development to the people of Kianjai, Tigania West and Meru County at large,” Kiraitu said.