Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua wants all party leaders involved in the discussions of the BBI report. “We must get away from the bourgeoisie system, where the elite decide for the rest of us. We want a revolution in Kenya where the voice of the majority is heard and considered,” he said. The Maendeleo Chap Chap leader was speaking in Mombasa and Kilifi counties. He is on a countrywide 'listening tour' to get the views and problems of the people. He said the biggest problem the people of Kenya have is lack of money in their pockets because of lack of jobs and poor leadership. The governor said the political class has made it a habit to preach unity during the electioneering period and then forget the voters once they are elected. “It is like a political gimmick,” Mutua said. He said the leadership of the country has been concentrating on the problem afflicting Kenya rather than the cause of the problem. “It is like someone drinking contaminated water at home, getting cholera because of it and being treated in a hospital then going back home to drink the same water. We must treat that water and make it clean, otherwise cholera will not go away,” Mutua said. “Even if we have 10 BBIs, we will not solve any problem without treating the cause of the problem,” he said. He said Kenyans must interrogate the BBI and internalise it before making an informed decision on whether to adopt or reject it. “We must all be involved so that we can sit down and see which clauses are good for Kenyans and which ones need to be amended,” Mutua said. He said at the roundtable, he will be representing the voices of the poor, the weak and the downtrodden in society. The BBI should not be a members club where tribal chieftains are selected to represent the major tribes only, he noted. “If it is about that, then it will fail. I will not support it. I want an all-inclusive discussion of BBI so that going forward even the smallest person in Kenya benefits.” He said it is time for Kenya to refresh because 'the computer has hang'. Mutua said he is in the race to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta because he wants to ensure the poor in society are economically empowered, so they can also feel part of a government that listens to their plight. “I want the presidency to change the lives of the people for the better. I am not after money because I have made enough for myself. I have my own wealth, I am educated and my children are okay.” He said it is a shame that countries like Singapore, who were at the same level as Kenya some years back, are now giving Kenya loans. Uhuru in Kisumu on Thursday said the BBI is the real medicine that Kenya needs, adding that before Kenya was a sick person suffering from malaria but being given Panadol, a painkiller. On Friday, Mutua questioned the doctor who prescribed 'the painkiller' for malaria. “The medicine Kenya needs will not be found by a few people sitting at a table discussing amongst themselves. All Kenyans must be involved,” the Maendeleo Chap Chap party leader said. He said he is looking for a young, energetic and dynamic person to be his running mate – one who shares his ideologies of a 24-hour economy. The Machakos Governor said his base he is fighting the tribal card where leaders are associated with certain regions and certain communities. “My base is the mama mboga, that youth, that person at the grassroots who wants their hand held, so they can be empowered economically,” Mutua said. He said he is ready to work with the BBI proponents so long as they are ready to be told the truth and ready to listen to criticism. “We want to look at the economic foundation of this BBI. How will it change the lives of the poor person at the grassroots? We don’t want a situation where people will get positions and poverty remains entrenched in our country.” “I cannot participate in a formula that does not guarantee my children and those of other people a better future,” the governor said. 