 The Nairobi Metropolitan Services marked 200 days of its existence this week. It has made remarkable progress, but not without many hurdles, courtesy of Governor Mike Sonko's administration. The bad blood centres on payroll of seconded staff, pending bills, handover of contracts and access to funds. The NMS was established on March 18 by President Uhuru Kenyatta under the leadership of Maj-Gen Mohamed Badi as the director general. There has been no love lost between Badi and Sonko, who many a time vents his dislike of the military man on social media and public stunts, prompting the intervention of none other than President Kenyatta. On August 12, the two announced the beginning of a ‘brotherhood’ after the head of state read them the riot act and warned them against "baseless political games" detrimental to delivery of service to Nairobians. However, their bromance didn’t last as a report submitted to the Senate Health Committee on Tuesday shows. The document exposes the obstacles the NMS faces in its effort to offer better services to Nairobi residents. City Hall is, for instance, yet to hand over the payroll of 6,502 county staff seconded to NMS in April under the Deed of Transfer of functions signed in February. This has affected those who deserve promotions, redesignation and salary harmonisation. In August, doctors went on strike and as the NMS and City Hall tried to resolve the industrial action, the Badi team realised it did not have the payroll of the seconded staff, among them doctors. “We will act on the issues on promotion once the County Public Service Board sends the payroll of the doctors affected,” NMS deputy director general Thuku Kang’ethe said. It has also emerged that a number of support services staff among them accountants and procurement officers attached to hospitals did not get secondment letters from the Public Service Commission. “This may interfere with management at the four main hospitals as NCCG has occasionally transferred key personnel for unclear reasons, leaving gaps,” according to the NMS. There are also discrepancies in terms and conditions of work for health staff inherited from the defunct Nairobi City Council, the devolved staff from the Ministry of Health in 2013 and those employed by the county after 2014. The County Public Service Board is yet to submit a detailed report to the NMS for onward submission to the PSC. The NMS has no access to health funds since the signatories to the county Special Purpose Account at the Central Bank of Kenya have not been changed. That account has Sh127 million meant for health centres in the city. These funds are conditional grants that attract penalties when not expended correctly and timely. Still on health matters, the NMS is unable to access Sh47 million for the coronavirus pandemic intervention and Sh79 million user fee for health centres and dispensaries. “These funds are still held at the County Revenue Fund Account without the ability of NMS to access the funds despite pressure to execute the functions by the donors such as Danida and account for the funds," the report states. It says the completion of projects has been affected since City Hall is yet to hand over a record of contracts, bills and record of stalled and or on-going jobs. “This has hindered assessment of pending bills, contracted service providers such as security services and completion of stalled projects." The MCAs were in uproar last week as stalled projects reflect badly on their performance at ward level. “The delay of NMS to handle projects started before the transfer of functions [to the national government] is primarily because the county is yet to formally hand over existing projects,” Majority Whip Paul Kados said. The NMS is concerned by failure of the Sonko administration to hand over pending bills of the four transferred functions - health services, transport, planning and development, and public works and utilities. A team set up to sort out this matter has achieved no progress despite three sittings at the Attorney General's office. City Hall questions the NMS's interest in pending bills some of which date back to 2011 before the county was established.  - mwaniki fm