Some 21 constituencies will lose close to Sh13 million each if MPs approve a new Constituency Development Fund sharing formula. However, 190 constituencies stand to gain, some as much as Sh19 million each, according to the proposed amendments to the National Government Constituencies Development Fund Bill, 2019. The rest - about 100 constituencies - will lose by some margins. The formula shows that 75 per cent of all the CDF cash should be shared equally among the 290 entities while 25 per cent should be shared based on the number of wards each has. The Bill by Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu states that further allocations would be based on the national poverty index at the constituency level. Central – including Meru, Embu and Tharaka regions - and Rift Valley constituencies will be the biggest losers. They will lose Sh127 million and Sh184 million respectively. However, Rift Valley constituencies are poised for an increase of Sh188.2 million whereas some constituencies in Central are tipped for an increase of Sh99.9 million. Nyanza and Western constituencies are projected to lose Sh113.8 million and Sh114.6 million respectively. Coast constituencies, according to the formula proposed by Eseli, will have their allocations slashed by Sh76 million against a Sh14.8 million gain for others. Those in Northeastern are looking at Sh69.8 million loss compared with their current total allocation while Lower Eastern is bound to lose Sh56.9 million. At the Coast, Lamu West and Jomvu will lose Sh12.84 million each should the formula be applied in the next financial year. Msambweni, Lunga Lunga, Kaloleni, Rabai, Ganze, Galole and Wundanyi are staring at a loss of Sh6.3 million each. Kisauni, Kinango, and Kilifi North stand to gain Sh13 million above their current allocation if the Bill is inacted into law while the rest will get Sh158,155 more. In Northeastern, Garissa Township will lose Sh6.3 million as will Ijara, Wajir East, Tarbaj and Eldas. Wajir South, North Horr and Isiolo North constituencies will gain Sh13.2 million whereas Daadab and Lagdera will get Sh6.7 million more. In Upper Eastern, Mbeere North will lose Sh12.8 million, Central Imenti  Sh6.3 million while the rest will gain between Sh158,000 and Sh6.7 million. In lower Eastern, Mwingi West, Kitui West, Kitui Rural, Kangundo, Kathiani, Kaiti, Kibwezi East and Mavoko constituencies will shed off Sh6.3 million. Kilome will be the biggest loser in the face of a possible variance of Sh12.84 million in the formula already approved by the National Assembly CDF committee chaired by Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi. In Central, Kinangop, Kieni, Mwea and Ruiru will gain Sh19 million each whereas Tetu, Ndia, Kangema and Mathioya are likely to lose Sh12.8 million each. Kipipiri, Ol Joro Orok, Ndaragwa, Othaya, Mukurwe-ini, Kirinyaga Central, Gatundu North, Gatundu South, and Kiambu Town stand to lose Sh6.3 million each should the formula be adopted. Mathira, Kiharu, Maragwa, Gatanga, and Kandara will each get Sh6.7 million more in the new proposal. Rift Valley has a fair share of losers - Turkana East, Endebess, Ainabkoi, Mogotio and Subukia - whose allocations will be slashed by Sh12.8 million each. Sigor, Pokot South, Samburu East, Kwanza, Kesses, Marakwet East, Keiyo North, Tinderet, Nandi Hills, Emgwen, Baringo South, Laikipia North, Molo, Kuresoi North, Kuresoi South, Narok East, Narok West, Kipkelion East, Kikpkelion West, and Sigowet constituencies will make do without Sh6.3 million each. The rest will gain by between Sh158,155 and Sh13.2 million like the case of Bureti, Cherangany, Soi and Turkana West. In Western, the biggest losers are Mumias East, Emuhaya, Sirisia and Webuye East at Sh12.8 million each. Mumias West, Khwisero, Ikolomani, Vihiga, Kabuchai, Webuye West, Kimilili, Matayos, and Budalang'i may lose Sh6.3 million each. Nyanza’s Ugunja constituency may lose Sh12.8 million, while Ugenya will lose Sh6.3 million, the same being the case for Seme, Kabondo Kasipul, Rangwe, Homa Bay Town, Suba South, Rongo, Awendo, Suna West, Suna East, Bonchari, Bomachoge Borabu, Kitutu Chache North, and Borabu constituencies. Ndhiwa, Karachuonyo, Nyatike, and Kuria West are poised for Sh13.2 million gain in the new proposal. In Nairobi, Embakasi West and Embakasi East are tipped to lose Sh6.3 million while the rest would gain between Sh158,000 to Sh6.7 million.  - mwaniki fm