Garissa Deputy Governor Abdi Dagane has warned Governor Ali Korane against attempting to carry out county duties with a pending graft case. The DG said the governor’s actions are not only unconstitutional but tantamount to violation of his bail terms. Dagane said that the governor has been engaging with elders from several sub-clans, some MCAs, and holding an executive meeting. “The said meetings were untimely and provoked reactions from some members of the public (clans). One must understand simmering tensions can set a dangerous precedent and potentially jeopardize public trust,” Dagane said on Tuesday. He added that “I am cognizant that most of these engagements except for being divisive in nature, the resultant reactions form the public and possible related tension, they do not amount to discharging executive functions of the governor office." The DG added that he was shocked to learn about the executive meeting held at the governor’s private residence attended by CECs and other county officials. He has informed the governor that the purported discharge of executive function is tantamount to violation of the court order and related bail terms whose consequences he said can be punitive. “It is therefore in his best interest to respect the court orders and act with an abundance of caution.” County officials who attended the governor’s meeting have been asked to honour the laid down code of conduct. “They must at all times uphold and exceed those standards irrespective of any pressures or intimidation from any source.” He has assured Garissa residents that he will not be moved by intimidation from the governor and that the meeting was unconstitutional. “I assure you no amount of intimidation to myself or to the gallant county staff will deter our resolve to ensure every penny is employed in delivering service to the people of Garissa county." He continued, “There is no leadership vacuum in the operations of the county government and appeal to all stakeholders within and outside the county to accord me and the team all the necessary support in discharging the constitutional duties entrusted.” Dagane last week announced his decision to assume the governorship in an acting capacity pending resolution of Korane's case. He was accompanied by security officials when he made the announcement. This followed threats Dagane said were made to his life. Dagane recorded a statement at Kilimani police station where he alleged that some people had threatened him, days after his boss Korane was charged with failing to provide oversight on Sh233 million World Bank grant funds. Others facing charges are Finance chief officer Ibrahim Malow, Treasury head Mohammed Abdullahi, Municipality CEC Abdi Shale and head of accounting at municipal, Ahmed Aden. It was found that instead of the money being used for the construction of a market, re carpeting of CBD roads and putting up of pedestrian walkways and setting up of drainages, it was diverted between February and September 2019.