Regional carrier Jambojet will launch direct flights between Kisumu and Mombasa following approval by the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority. Governor Anyang' Nyong’o, Jambojet acting managing director Karanja Ndegwa and Kisumu International Airport and Western region airports manager Selina Gor will preside over the event, according to a media invite. Jambojet has already opened ticket bookings for Mombasa to Eldoret and Kisumu, Eldoret and Kisumu to Mombasa routes. One-way ticket from Mombasa to Eldoret or Kisumu will cost Sh8,900. A return trip from Eldoret and Kisumu to Mombasa will cost the same. Head of sales and marketing Titus Oboogi said customer satisfaction is at the core of their business. “We continuously listen to our customers’ needs and are happy that we can now connect the Western region to the Coast region with the introduction of these direct flights,” Oboogi said. Customers can book tickets through the existing distribution channels, including the website (www.jambojet.com), Progressive Web App, sales offices, call centre and travel agents. Oboogi said the airline will operate the two routes every Friday and Sunday, with the Mombasa-Eldoret and Kisumu flight departing Mombasa at 13.15pm to arrive in Eldoret at 15.05pm or Kisumu at 15.55pm. The flight will depart Eldoret at 15.25pm and Kisumu at 16.15pm to arrive in Mombasa at 18.05pm. Jambojet resumed operations on July 15 after putting in place aircraft safety and health measures due to Covid-19. Currently, the carrier flies to six local destinations, namely Malindi, Ukunda, Mombasa, Kisumu and Eldoret from its hub in Nairobi. The airline usually uses the Bombardier Dash 8 Q400 type of aircraft for its domestic flights. It is yet to start international flights because of strict health guidelines issued by Rwanda and Uganda. Since its inception in 2014, Jambojet, which is IOSA certified (IATA Operational Safety Audit), has flown more than 3.5 million passengers, 30 per cent of whom are first-time flyers. Edited by Henry Makori