Deputy president William Ruto has hit out at critics making a fuss out of his visit to Jubilee Headquarters on Thursday accompanied by 38 legislators. "These are interesting times indeed! That working from Jubilee HQs where I'm the duly elected deputy party leader is considered news," Ruto said via Twitter. "Our focus is on efforts that are complementary to achieving our shared aspirations while ensuring that no one is left behind for whatever reason." Ruto was responding to speculation over his visit as no senior Jubilee official including secretary general Raphael Tuju was at hand to receive him. The DP arrived moments to 10 am accompanied  by 38 MPs in what allies of Uhuru termed as a 'coup.” Seen as part of his elaborate scheme to recapture Jubilee, the DP has now resolved to be working from the Pangani-based office at least twice a week to kick out 'hijackers'. This was the third time Ruto visited the Jubilee nerve centre in less than two weeks. The DP is putting up a spirited fight to regain control of the outfit from 'cartels and busybodies' he said are holding the party hostage. The timing of his visit with a host of MPs triggered protests from the President's allies who termed the move a daring raid aimed at undermining the President. Uhuru is in France for a state visit. "He (Ruto) went to Jubilee Party headquarters to grab the party. It was a raid and a coup,” said Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu. The fierce Ruto critic said the DP's visit was a provocative step that must be seen as a direct challenge against the President. But Kandara MP Alice Wahome, who was among those accompanying Ruto, dismissed Wambugu remarks, saying the DP and his allies were legally “at home” and cannot be intimidated. “This, therefore, does not amount to a coup in the party because you cannot cause a coup in your own house or government. It would be unfortunate for anyone to call it a coup,” Wahome said. Meru Senator Mithika Linturi, who was with Ruto, dismissed claims that the DP and his allies were staging a coup in the party that had shoved them to the periphery. "These are the members of the Jubilee Party. We had a meeting to exchange ideas. There was no coup and there is no coup in our party,” Linturi said. “How can we stage a coup in our own party? This is our party that we finance.”