The government is set to begin a major crackdown against people defying Covid 19 protocols. This follows reports of an increased number of infected persons that has spiked in the past one week in Kilifi county. Kilifi county Covid-19 committee, chaired by governor Amason Kingi together with the county commissioner Kutswa Olaka, ordered the security personnel to begin enforcing the rules so as to prevent a resurgence of the cases of Covid-19 in the county. The resolution was reached after a security meeting between the governor, his cabinet and the security committee that is chaired by the county commissioner who is new in the county. Addressing journalists after the meeting, Kingi said it has come to his attention that people have now begun ignoring the protocol and live normally despite the fact that the pandemic is still in place. The governor said people do not observe social distancing rules and are no longer wearing masks which put them at a high risk of contacting the deadly virus. In the recent cases, Kilifi county recorded eight Covid-19 positive cases with majority coming from Magarini sub county which was alarming. Kingi said matatus and passenger service vehicles have also stopped following the protocols and are carrying excess passengers which was risky. Further he said funeral services have also resumed the normal burial organizations that bring together hundreds of people which is against the protocols. The directive will see security personnel together with the county inspectorate implement the orders to ensure the rules are adhered to. "Our duty is to ensure the rules are followed and any matatus found defying the protocols shall face the full force of the law," he said. The directives he said shall be effected also in restaurants which do not follow the rules. At the same time, he cautioned politicians in the county against organizing large gatherings that could lead to the spread of Covid-19 He told members of the public to resist from attending funerals weddings or political forums which do not observe the ministry of health protocols on the coronavirus. The county commissioner on his part said those who will ignore the rules, shall be arrested and face the full force of the law. He said the country still has a major challenge in combating the coronavirus pandemic as the cases are rising and added that he was supporting the governor on the directives that have been issued . Olaka urged political leaders, religious leaders and even government officials to set a good example to the public by ensuring that they follow the Covid-19 protocols. Both the governor and the county commissioner also agreed to work together on all matters not only on Covid but any development agenda. "We are working for the same people and we shall demonstrate that through our cooperation," he said. He said politicians must observe the laws and avoid defying Covid-19 orders of organizing gatherings failure to which they will face the full force of the law. Recently, the county has been witnessing an increase in numbers of people attending funerals or weddings in what is completely defying the Covid-19 protocols.