The patron of the Kikuyu Council of Elders Captain (Rtd) Kung’u Muigai has cautioned against supporting any political grouping. Speaking to the Star on the phone on Tuesday, Kung’u, a member of the Kenyatta family, said elders should focus on uniting various political groupings to ensure a united country. “As elders, we don’t engage in petty politics. Our position is that all politicians are our children. If you are a father, and you find your two boys fighting, will you pick on one and continue whipping?” he posed. Kung’u said it is the policy of the elders to stand with the government of the day. “If we start supporting let’s say Tangatanga, or Kieleweke, who will provide the voice of reason and unity when these two sides clash? That is why we should not be seen leaning on any side,” he said. The Tangatanga group is allied to Deputy President William Ruto, while the Kieleweke faction is opposed to his political activities, having declared he wants to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta come 2022. DP Ruto has, however, complained that the “system” and the “deep state” are out to frustrate his ambitions. On Monday, two rival groups within Mt Kenya region emerged fighting for recognition as the official Kikuyu Council of Elders. One camp is led by Wachira Kiago, while the other group is led by Samuel Kimani Maigua. Both claim to be bonafide council national chairman. Kiago on Saturday led a group of elders to ODM leader Raila Odinga's home in Bondo, which none of the elders from Maigua's camp attended. Kung’u explained that Maigua’s group is registered under the Registrar of Societies as a council, while the camp led by Kiago is registered as a community-based organisation. According to documents seen by the Star, the Maigua-led group was registered on December 10, 2018 at the Registrar of Societies, Attorney General’s office. The certificate was signed by Assistant Registrar of Societies Jacob Ikiara. The group had made an application on November 23, 2018. According to the certificate, the group’s officials are Samuel Maigua as the chairman, Daniel Kigochi as vice chair, Stephen Karau as the secretary and Joseph Gichuhi as the assistant secretary. Other officials are Simon Gathi (treasurer), Joseph Mbaaro (assistant treasurer), Paul Ndichu (organising secretary) and Njoka Warui as the assistant secretary general. The second group that was in Bondo was registered on September 23, 2014 as the Kikuyu Council of Elders Association Trust. Its purpose according to the documents was to enable humanitarian, social, cultural and economic empowerment. Its officials are listed as Simon Wachira, James Ng’ang’a, Stephen Kamotho, Peter Munga, John Muiruri, Martin Kinyanjui and Joseph Muiruri. Edited by EKibii