Former IEBC commissioner Thomas Letangule has lauded the courts for serving justice following the death of his wife at the hands of negligent staff at a city hospital seven years ago. Letangule was awarded Sh2.6 million in damages by High Court judge Lucy Njuguna after establishing that his wife Esther underwent hours of suffering from the time she reached the hospital to the time of her death at about 6pm on April 10, 2013. Letangule said the family is relieved because justice has finally been served. “As a family, we just wanted closure in terms of the conclusion of the case. Even though the award appears minimal, we are satisfied that a verdict has been made and this case brought to a close,” he said. Esther presented herself for the usual antenatal checkups at Family Care Medical Centre and Maternity Home with complaints of blurred vision, swelling of the lower limbs and face, and a severe headache. She was immediately admitted at around 10am but there was a delay in initiating treatment as a result of which her condition worsened and she died on the same day at around 5pm. Medical records show that even as the treatment was administered, the condition of the patient kept deteriorating and at 10.15 am, she suffered the first convulsion and a second one at 12.05pm. That, according to the court, meant that the treatment was not effective and decisive action needed to be taken to change the nature or course of treatment, but nothing was done. Even after the second convulsion, there was still no clear plan to escalate treatment and there was no doctor in sight. It was not until 3pm that a doctor showed up and upon reviewing the patient ordered her transfer. The judge said Esther's death was not instantaneous. “The deceased underwent hours of prolonged suffering from the time she went into the hospital with the hope of receiving treatment in the morning, to the time of her death at about 6pm on the material date,” she said. Esther was aged 37. Her husband argued that she would have worked for about 23 years, taking into account the official retirement age of 60. She worked as an assurance sales person, earning a monthly salary of between Sh50,000 and Sh70,000. She was also studying for a degree, which would have enhanced her earnings upon qualification. The judge established that though Letangule said the deceased was working as an insurance salesperson, he did not provide any evidence to support the claim. “Save for the death certificate and copy of the identification card to confirm that she was aged 37 years, there is no proof of earnings or the nature of employment which the deceased was engaged in,” the judge ruled. Edited by Henry Makori