Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula has urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to ensure the BBI unites Kenyans instead of dividing the country further. Speaking in Kamukuywa during the burial of John Bunyansi, a Ford Kenya leader in Uasin Gishu, Wetang'ula said the Building Bridges Initiative should be a national conversation that will bring Kenyans together from the violence, bloodshed and anger that tears Kenya apart in every election. “I want to  advise our President Uhuru that BBI is supposed to unite Kenyans and let it not be personalised by anyone. We want to see Kenya being a country that is at peace with itself, with a constitution that works with laws that are respected,” he said He called upon Uhuru to bring all leaders in the country together without discrimination to talk and agree about the BBI. He said that such a move would help leaders when they go back to wananchi to market the BBI that will make lives better. The Ford Kenya leader said the party already gave its views to the committee led by Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji. "We want to see 45 per cent of revenues coming to the counties. We want to see issues of youths, women and disabled persons in the frontline of development," he said. "We want to see equitable distribution of development in the country, so that what is being done in some parts of the country is reflected in other parts; so that Kenyans feel a sense of pride and belonging." Wetang'ula called for "political hygiene" where by at the end of elections the winners don't feel exalted and the losers don't feel vanquished. He said he would like to see an election where everybody accepts the results without questions as happens in better jurisdictions like Ghana and Tanzania. He said that Kenyans want to see IEBC that is trusted by all. "We want to see IEBC being beyond reproach, an institution of integrity that is respected by everyone. We don't want to see people balkanizing the country by saying that there guys are for BBI,” he said. He said everybody is waiting for BBI report and no one has seen it or the bill based on it that will be taken to Parliament. Wetang’ula said Uhuru's legacy should be to leave Kenya better than he found it. He also asked Uhuru to stop the process of leasing Nzoia Sugar Company. “We will only accept the move if we sit down and have proper public participation. We want farmers and the county to have shares in the mill,”he said. Edited by Henry Makori