A pilot telemedicine system to provide health facilities in Garissa with internet has been launched in Ijara Constituency. A-Vu Media, a provider of telemedicine services in the United States, launched the service after partnering with Sophia Foundation, The Matter and Telkom Kenya. A-Vu Media is an information technology services company focused on providing access to broadband-enabled telemedicine, multimedia and communication services. The firm donated a Telemedicine Server to Sophia Foundation. Through this partnership, Telkom Kenya agreed to host the new pilot system at no cost and further provide internet connectivity to the selected institutions for the pilot phase. Speaking on Tuesday during the ceremony at Masalani town, area MP Sophia Abdi Noor said this will go a long way in enhancing healthcare in the area. “Today marks a historic milestone for the people of Ijara Constituency, Garissa County and Kenyans at large as I hand over a telemedicine server to Telkom Kenya. This is an opportunity to improve healthcare for our citizens with remote connections between providers and patients through internet hosted services,” she said. She added: “The need for this, as necessary as it has always been, has been intensified by the current coronavirus pandemic that restricts travel and personal contact between medical personnel and patients.” “I want to  express my utmost gratitude to the A-Vu Media president, John Goodman, The Matter president and staff, Telkom CEO Mugo Kibati and the Sophia Foundation Board of Directors for this astonishing achievement,” she said. Goodman, who is the founder and CEO of the company, said they were determined to grow by partnering with healthcare providers and broadband service companies to serve the related access needs of seniors and disabled citizens. Kibati said the world is fast changing and embracing new technology. He said there was need to move with times, promising to enhance internet connectivity across the country. “With the internet availability, it will enable care providers to gain rapid access to information that can aid in the diagnosis of health conditions or the development of suitable treatment plans. It can make patient records, test results, and practice guidelines accessible from the examination room,” said Kibati. The pilot phase of the project shall be in seven counties across the country including Garissa County with the Garissa Referral Hospital and Masalani Level 4 Hospital selected for the trial period.