Residents of Ndikwe village in Kiharu, Murang’a county, have suffered huge losses after hippos ravaged their crops. The farmers say they have borne the brunt of the invasion for more than seven months since the animals pitched camp in the area. The bloat of hippos lives in the Kayahwe River and have wiped out their crops and made it impossible for them to continue their farming activities. George Nduati estimated the damage to his commercial amaranth crop at Sh20,000. He accused local Kenya Wildlife Service officers of inaction, despite calls to intervene. "All my efforts to plant, weed and tend to my farm have gone to waste as my crops have been destroyed by the hippos,” Nduati said. He said his neighbour lost French beans worth about Sh30,000. The village once thrived on irrigation agriculture and boasted food independence. It is now a pale shadow of its former self, thanks to the wild animals and environmental changes. The farms destroyed are in an area that is three-kilometre long. Nduati said they will have no option but to trap the animals, turn them into food and end their reign of destruction. “We know there are other areas where people have managed to trap the animals and when we do, we will feast on them to pay ourselves back for our losses,” he said. Another farmer, Joseph Nduati, said the animals have destroyed his kales — his only source of income. He said the animals even stray to his home compound at night, causing his family distress. “In the morning, we wake up to find footprints in our homes. That makes it impossible to get out of our houses at night,” he said, noting that they are now compelled to keep their security lights on throughout the night to repel the nuisance. He questioned why KWS has yet to offer any assistance, saying the damage could have been prevented. “We wonder whether they are waiting for lives to be lost so that they can take action,” Joseph said. Recently, the hippos pounced on a farm where a woman and her children were using a water pump to irrigate crops. The woman screamed upon seeing them as she and her children scampered for safety. The hippos' footprints in the riverbanks indicate that they may be many. As the short rains season start, the farmers have raised concerns that the animals will once again leave their lives in ruins. “They have destroyed the crops we had planted using irrigation, will they spare the maize and beans that we have now planted?” Joseph asked. They appealed to the government to come to their rescue now or plan to support them with relief food next year. Joseph Mwaura said the hippos also come out in the evening as residents fetch water from the river. “They hide in the bushes and come out at once. They have made our lives difficult,” he said.  Edited by F'Orieny