A 73-year-old widow from Muthiga village in Leshau Pondo, Ndaragwa, is living in a tent after her home was demolished following a land dispute. Lydia Ndumia also lost five cows and a calf and 20 sheep after they were auctioned over Sh145,570 debt she claims no knowledge of. She said she was not served any notice prior to eviction and attachment of her livestock. She said she incurred a loss amounting to over Sh500,000 given that a mature cow would go for Sh50, 000 in the area, while a sheep costs Sh6,000. Added to that is the cost of buildings that were demolished and property that got damaged or was stolen, including farm equipment and electronics. A document from Tango Auctioneers seen by the Star indicates that five cows, a calf and nine sheep had an estimated value of Sh80,000. A Notification of Sale of Movable Property from the same auctioneer whose head office is in Nakuru with a branch at Nyahururu, however, indicated five cows valued at Sh80,000, nine sheep and four lambs valued at sh20,000 and one calf valued at Sh5,000. John Ngunjiri from Tango Auctioneers on Wednesday denied the auctioneer took away 20 sheep. He said only nine sheep, five cows and a calf were taken away. Ngunjiri said the firm had a lawful order and that is why they had police security. “We cannot do that wildly. We have to do something that is formal. These are court matters and we have the warrant of attachment, proclamation and eviction,” he said on the phone. He said Ndumia was supposed to procure a court injunction within 72 hours after the animals were taken away if she was opposed to the sale, which she never did. Speaking to the Star at her demolished home on Tuesday, Ndumia said that last Friday she woke up as usual and there were no signs of any impending catastrophe. “I was preparing porridge which I normally take before taking medicine. I suffer from diabetes and high blood pressure. Just from nowhere, a gang of youths accompanied by armed police officers started demolishing the kitchen. I collapsed and to date I don’t know who picked me up,” she said. She said when she came to, the demolition party informed her that they were implementing a court Order and her plea that she had no knowledge of the order since she had not been served fell on deaf ears. She said they demolished four houses, a store, a toilet, a chicken coop and a cowshed. They warned they would return after a few days to burn the building materials if her family did not clear them from the scene. Two of the houses belonged to her son. She said any neighbour who tried to help was whipped and kept at bay. Ndumia's immediate neighbour, John Kiboi Wambugu, said the court dispute has lasted since 1989. Her land is registration number Nyandarua/Mbuyu/323 while Kiboi’s is Nyandarua /Mbuyu/967 and there is a public road between them, which has also been encroached. Through a request by area chief Wamucii Wahome, the county surveyor visited the scene on June 18 to determine the boundaries. In a letter dated June 29 and addressed to the Nyandarua county land registrar, the surveyor indicated that "the owner of parcel number Nyandarua/Mbuyu/967 is fully inside parcel number Nyandarua/Mbuyu/323." In a letter dated August 12,  the chief urged the registrar’s office to consider the matter and give the way forward. Ndumia, however, said the registrar has never gone to the ground and her family has been waiting for him only to be evicted from the land she has lived on since 1977. Ndumia, who is living in a tent provided by the community, urged the government to intervene and show Kiboi his rightful boundary so he stops claiming her land. Speaking to the Star on the phone yesterday morning, Kiboi denied encroaching on Ndumia’s land. He said it is Ndumia who built on his land and then took him to court. “The matter was heard and determined in Nyahururu. I have both the ruling and eviction orders which were also served on her,” he said Nyandarua county land registrar Ayienda Morara said he could not have gone to the ground when a matter was active in court unless such orders were issued. He said he did not have facts about the matter. “If the determination was done, I should have been served with the orders,” he said Residents who spoke to the Star said the land in dispute belongs to Ndumia and urged the government to show Kiboi his boundaries. Edited by Henry Makori