The number of Covid-19 patients in the country under the intensive care unit has jumped further to 39 as at Monday. According to the Health ministry, all the 39 patients in ICU are on supplemental oxygen. This comes barely a day after the Health ministry warned of severe disease in the country. On Sunday, 28 people were in ICU, 10 under ventilator support, 14 on supplemental oxygen and four under observation. Similarly, the number of admissions in various health facilities has gone up in a day to 1,048 up from 991 on Sunday. “We are getting a more severe form of the disease and what is also  unique in this second part of the infection is that all age groups are affected. We are losing more and more people who are young and who do not have any coexisting medical conditions,” acting Health director general Patrick Amoth said. The total number of patients under the home-based care programme is 2,480 as the country moves into what Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has described as a possible second wave. “Sadly, seven patients have succumbed to the disease, bringing the fatality to 839. Our sincere condolences to the families and friends of those who have lost their loved ones,” Kagwe said in a statement. The virus caseload has hit 45,076 after 195 more positive cases were confirmed by the ministry. The new cases were from a sample size of 1,852 tested in 24 hours. The positivity rate has in the past two weeks been above 10 per cent since the relaxation of some containment measures, way above the WHO recommendation of five per cent or less. All the new cases except 19 were Kenyans aged between five months and 75 years old comprising of 137 men and 58 women. Nairobi still leads in new infections after recording 99 new cases followed by Busi with 18, Uasin Gishu with 17, Meru with 14, while Mombasa and Kiambu recorded 10 cases each. Murang’a recorded eight new infections, Nakuru seven, Kajiado three, Kisumu and Machakos two cases each while Bungoma, Wajir, Kitui, Nyandarua and Nandi had one case each. Kagwe has also noted an increase in cases from various prisons and institutions in counties, adding that there are some counties that are of concern. Other counties include Kilifi, Trans Nzoia, Kisumu, Bungoma, Kisii and Turkana. The number of recoveries clicked 32,082 after 227 more patients recovered from the disease; 146 were discharged from the home based care programme while 81 were discharged from various health facilities across the country. On Monday, the modeling teams said the country is witnessing a second wave of infections, a move that is likely to see the government re-escalate the measures that had been relaxed by the President. Edited by EKibii