Kenya will on Wednesday join the rest of the world to pay tribute to the collaborative efforts of the thousands of experts worldwide who develop the voluntary technical agreements that are published as International Standards. The World Standards Day is celebrated internationally each year on October 14, to mark the date, in 1946. This is when delegates from 25 countries first gathered in London and decided to create an international organization focused on facilitating standardization. This year’s celebrations are organized under the theme, ‘Protecting the planet with standards’. Speaking ahead of the celebrations, Kebs Managing Director Bernard Njiraini said that standards are tools that enhance urgent global actions being undertaken to promote environmental conservation and reduce the impact of rapid human consumption and production to the environment. “This year’s theme recognizes the power of standards to protect the planet. At Kebs, we have standards that address environmental issues such as air, water, soil quality, greenhouse gas emissions, energy efficiency, and much more. We can rely on standards to provide a data-driven approach to protect the environment as well as promote sustainable development,” Njiraini said. He added that plans to adopt over 342 standards that address climate change, environmental management, and sustainable forestry from the International Standards Organization (ISO) are underway. "We are consulting and engaging with various local, regional and international stakeholders to develop and implement mainstream frameworks and policies, which support heightened action against climate change,” he said. The chief guest of the event will be Cabinet Secretary, Ministry of Industrialization, Trade, and Enterprise Development Betty Maina accompanied by other high-profile government and international officials. This includes ISO President Eddy Njoroge and Principal Secretary State Department for Industrialization Dr Francis Owino who has been vocal in advocating for an intergovernmental and international approach to environmental conservation.