Award winning artiste John Legend and his wife Chrissy Teigen are in mourning after losing their third born baby boy, right after birth. This was days after she was admitted to the hospital with severe bleeding. Chrissy took to social media to announce the heart breaking news, stating that, "We are shocked and in the kind of deep pain you only hear about, the kind of pain we've never felt before. We were never able to stop the bleeding and give our baby the fluids he needed, despite bags and bags of blood transfusions. It just wasn't enough'. The sad post showed photos in black and white which were taken at the hospital, with John holding Chrissy's hand while sitting right beside her. Chrissy can be seen crying on her bed, a photo that really touched the hearts of her fans and those of John. She revealed that for some reason she together with her husband never named their kids until the day of birth, but for their bundle of joy, it was different as they had started calling him Jack. "We never decide on our babies' names until the last possible moment after they're born, just before we leave the hospital. But we, for some reason, had started to call this little guy in my belly Jack. So he will always be Jack to us. Jack worked so hard to be a part of our little family, and he will be, forever," Chrissy posted. She added, " To our Jack - I’m so sorry that the first few moments of your life were met with so many complications, that we couldn’t give you the home you needed to survive.  We will always love you." Chrissy went on to thank all those who have been sending them positive energy, thoughts and prayers. "We feel all of your love and truly appreciate you...We are so grateful for the life we have, for our wonderful babies Luna and Miles, for all the amazing things we’ve been able to experience. "But everyday can’t be full of sunshine.  On this darkest of days, we will grieve, we will cry our eyes out. But we will hug and love each other harder and get through it," Chrissy said. She later on tweeted, "Driving home from the hospital with no baby. How can this be real." Chrissy and John have two children, daughter Luna who is four-years-old and son Miles who is two-years-old. The mother of two had earlier on revealed that she was on serious bed rest due to bleeding and that she was about halfway through her pregnancy. 