LSK President Nelson Havi has dismissed the claims that he is affiliated to the Jubilee Party fraction known as Tangatanga, which is led by Deputy President William Ruto. In an interview in one of the local tv stations on Tuesday night, Havi said that he is always ready to be present where is there trouble. “if they arrest a Member of Parliament affiliated to Tangatanga, Kieleweke, or ODM, you will find Havi there and I do this not out of pay. I do this out of duty because the practice of law is a vocation,” Havi said. LSK president added that he has represented the family of President Uhuru Kenyatta in court and that he has also acted against Ruto. “I have also against and for the associates of Raila Odinga and almost acted for every politician…it is misleading to associate me with a particular course,” Havi added. He continued that “I will continue defending the rights of everybody… it is my responsibility to do that and I will do that as long as I am alive.” Havi denied the claims that the mission to occupy Parliament for failing to enact a two-third gender rule failed. He said the process is still on course, and that he will still follow up on the same matter after handling the petition to the National Assembly Clerk Michael Sialai. “We wrote to the two Speakers as well as the clerks that we would come to Parliament 20 of us. We were twenty of us who went to Parliament. It is therefore not correct for anybody to say that we were expecting a multitude.” "We will ensure that the women of Kenya benefit from the constitution." According to Havi, Monday was a special delegation day of the three group leaders, including LSK, the United Green Movement, and WeAre52. He defended his manner of ruling to LSK, saying that he was elected due to his stands but added that those with varying opinions are allowed to exercise their democratic rights. Regarding the latest tweet response to Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga, Havi said that he will not apologise following the choice of words he picked, including ‘useless’. “The opposite of useful is useless. It is as simple as that. I have no apologies. I take time before constructing my sentences,” Havi said. On Monday, Havi led protests demanding that legislators vacate Parliament Buildings over Chief Justice David Maraga's dissolution advisory. Havi and United Green Movement's Jonathan Mueke went to the speaker's boardroom to serve to vacate notices. The 'Occupy Parliament' movement is a push by the LSK to force President Uhuru Kenyatta to dissolve Parliament as advised by Maraga on September 21 over its failure to implement the two-thirds gender rule. LSK said parliamentarians ceased to exercise their legislative powers on behalf of Kenyans. This follows the end of the 21-day ultimatum after the advisory. According to the CJ, Parliament had failed to enact a law that would have seen the two-thirds gender rule implemented. However, LSK members were allowed into Parliament Buildings after their 'Ocuupy Parliament' bid failed. National Assembly Clerk Michael Sialai said parliamentarians and LSK members had fruitful deliberations.