Kenya Civil Aviation Authority director general Gilbert Kibe has been appointed as the new Civil Air Navigation Services Organisation executive committee chairperson. His appointment was announced during the 24th organisation's Annual General Meeting which was held virtually. Captain Gilbert Macharia Kibe has a wealth of experience in the aviation sector spanning a period of over 30 years, including four years as a member of the CANSO Executive Committee. CANSO unites 186 air traffic management(ATM) service providers and suppliers in committing to support the safe and seamless recovery of aviation through strong leadership and a new advocacy resolution. Kibe said, “I am honoured to have been selected as chair of the CANSO Executive Committee. I have great faith in the ATM community and all that CANSO members have delivered in terms of transforming ATM.” He added that “I relish the task of working with industry key players across the globe to deliver a safe, seamless and sustainable future for the industry.” Other key appointments include Luis Rodrigues Heraldo, Director General of DECEA, and Graeme Sumner, CEO of Airways New Zealand, as Executive Committee members at large. Don Thoma, CEO of Aireon, and Conor Mullan, Managing Director of ThinkResearch Ltd, have also been re-elected as Associate Member representatives. Simon Hocquard, Director General of CANSO, said: “I would like to thank the outgoing chair, Rudy Kellar, and member at large, Klaus Dieter Scheurle, for their dedication to CANSO." He added that " I would also like to welcome all our new Executive Committee members. They join a knowledgeable and experienced governance team, and together will help lead CANSO and the industry in addressing key challenges and securing our future." CANSO also launched a new advocacy priority to help the industry navigate the current aviation crisis. The commitment is to provide the policy and framework guidance to ensure the emergence of the ATM industry from the current pandemic a stronger and more resilient industry.