After weeks of anxious wait by their fans, former champions AFC Leopards are set to officially unveil their new players next week. Despite being linked to a host of local and foreign players, the club has remained tight-lipped on their deals. However, according to chairman, Dan Shikanda, the arrivals will be presented next week on the official website. Shikanda, who declined to reveal the identity of the new arsenals, said they shopped less than five players who caught the eye of the technical bench in the past. Ingwe have in the past been rumoured to have completed the signing of former Kariobangi Sharks winger Harrison Mwendwa, former Kakamega Homeboyz winger Peter Thiong'o and DR Congo national Fabrice Mugheni. The club has already parted company with Vincent Oburu and Christopher Oruchum who have joined Wazito and Tusker respectively. "We will officially unleash our new players next week." Bringing in more than half a dozen players has proved to be a problem in the past and this time round we did our homework well and signed less than five. "We went for quality players whom we believe will inject competition in all our departments and will help us better our results going forward," he said. Meanwhile, Shikanda was also non-committal on the possibility of the club bringing in a foreign coach. Last week, Leopards were reportedly on the verge of appointing former Township Rollers gaffer Thomas Trucha but Shikanda, who hinted on changes in the bench, maintains that Anthony Kimani will continue serving as the head pending further information. "I have read that we have hired a new manager but as far as the club is concerned, Kimani is the head coach. He did a splendid job last season and has our support. However, since it is our desire to better our last season's results, we may consider beefing up all departments including the technical bench and the secretariat. Kimani did well last season and remains the head coach at the moment," he said. At the same time, the former Kenyan international called on the government to consider the precautions observed by Harambee Stars who are gearing up for friendly match against Zambia as a yardstick for the total resumption of football activities. He said the precautions taken by the team which is in residential camp at Kasarani were enough to convince the government that the football family was ready to return of action. "The friendly is good for testing the waters. If the ministry okayed the match, then time is ripe for them to extend the favour to the league. We are willing to follow all health protocols even if it means playing behind closed doors, testing players and members of the technical bench," he added.