A priest recently likened the behaviour of Kenyan politicians to the tenants in Matthew 21:33-43. The tenants forgot they owed everything they had to the landowner. The same can be said of Kenyan politicians who love to play God. Politicians should not be carried away by the structures that seem to keep them safe even as they act unjustly and oppress the rest of us. They forget or neglect the fact that we shall give an account to God of our stewardship. Man has always attempted to play God in science, in economics, in ordinary day life and so many other ways. God is never unfaithful despite the failings of men. Because he is God, only He is indispensable. When we fail to make judicious use of all that God has given to us, He will not allow the project to die because of our negligence; He will rather put us away and employ those who will work with Him wholeheartedly. This should be a lesson to each one of us. God has not made us to displace Him but to serve Him. When he puts some ‘Lazarus’ at our gates, He is not entirely putting their lives in our hands. He is only giving us an opportunity to use what he has given us so we will be able to prepare our report for the last day. That person who depends on you for survival will one day no longer need you to survive; your employee will not work for you forever; your customer will not buy from you forever; your househelp will not be in your house forever; that person you are blackmailing will not be afraid of you forever. There is a time for everything and a time comes when life teaches us that we are merely pencils in the hands of our Creator. Therefore, the good you can do today, do not postpone it or excuse yourself from doing it. Always remember that the tables will turn one day. Politicians should know that humans are not the owners of this land but tenants. We have been sent to this world to fulfil God’s desires. So politicians should stop dividing others, being jealous, fighting and killing the people they should be leading. We need peace in Kenya.