Stephen Mburu left home at about 5pm on Monday evening to check on his farm that borders Delmonte land in Methi village. He did not return home. His wife Millicent Wanjiku found him on Tuesday at 6pm in a bush, barely conscious, his eye swollen shut and with dog bite marks on hands, face and legs. When he failed to come back home on the Monday evening, Wanjiku did not know where to look for Mburu as his phone was unreachable. But early Tuesday morning, she began to ask neighbours if anyone had seen Mburu. Someone told her that her husband had been arrested alongside four other men by Delmonte’s guards on suspicion of stealing pineapples from their farm. Wanjiku went to Ngati police station with a group of neighbours but was told Mburu was not among those who had been arrested. The suspects had been taken to Thika law courts and charged, police said. Her husband, she was told, had been allowed to go back home after sustaining injuries. The group mounted a search after failing to get any more leads from Delmonte guards and the police. “We searched for him the entire day Tuesday only to find him dumped and unconscious in a bush at 6 pm. The state he was in was shocking; his eyes were swollen shut and he had dog bites marks on his face, hands and legs,” she told the Star. Mburu’s sister Jane Wachera said another man who had also been released due to injuries informed them that Mburu had been badly beaten up. Wachera said the hospital said Mburu needed a CT scan but the family could not afford the cost so he was discharged and given painkillers. Mburu can barely talk and could not explain what happened to him. He had to be supported by his wife and sister out of the rental house they live in in the village. His eyes, still swollen, can barely open and produce a discharge. Wachera said though some people steal pineapples from the farm, it is inhumane to assault them in such a manner and even release their dogs on to them. “If all the people who have suffered in a similar way were called out, you would all be shocked because they are very many. Delmonte has formed the habit of assaulting even passers-by using the public roads,” she said. Wachera said legal action should be taken against the company so that victims like her brother can get justice. “We can barely feed ourselves let alone pay for his medical bills. Where will our help come from?” she wondered. But in a press statement, the company denied assaulting residents. It said the guards found two gangs of pineapple thieves fighting over the opportunity to steal pineapples. When the guards confronted the two gangs, the company said, they scampered leaving five individuals. The guards handed them over to Ngati police post where they were interrogated. “Those arrested were charged with attempting to steal pineapples at Thika law courts on October 27, which they pleaded guilty to and were sentenced to one month jail time,” the statement read. One of the accomplices arrested could not be given immediate medical attention and was redirected to his home in Methi village, it noted. Delmonte acknowledged receiving reports of brutality but denied wrongdoing. “Following completion of internal investigations and review of the police statement filed by the accused, Delmonte Kenya strongly refutes the allegation and asserts that its security guards acted within the law,” the statement said. 