Deputy President William Ruto and his allies are not justified to oppose the proposal to create the position of Prime Minister as contained in the BBI report. The DP camp has been using all political tricks in the book to dismantle the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. This is not because the idea of building a cohesive and united country is bad but simply because the DP and his allies believe Raila poses a great threat to Ruto’s bid to succeed President Kenyatta in the 2022 General Election. The BBI is a product of the unity deal. The search for a long-lasting peace and unity must be prioritised. So, those harbouring burning and selfish political ambitions must hold their horses and support the efforts to amend the 2010 Constitution. Some of the BBI proposals are designed to level the political playground. If adopted, the electoral reforms prescribed will help end electoral violence. DP Ruto is on record saying he was to become the Prime Minister if Raila won the 2007 election. Speaking while on a tour of Vihiga county, Ruto said Raila and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi shared “his PM position”, the former becoming the Prime Minister while the latter became his deputy. “I therefore, lost.  The two owe me a political debt and I would expect them to reciprocate by supporting my candidature in 2022,” he said. What has changed? Is it because the DP is now eyeing the position of the President and thus does not want to share power with anyone? Looking at our history, the winner-takes-all mentality has been the main cause of political mayhem. Ruto firmly pushed Raila’s agenda because he knew they will go home if they lost to President Mwai Kibaki. Given this scenario, I fully support the BBI proposal to get rid of that mentality. This means the presidential election contests will no longer be a matter of life and death. This will be a good thing. Our economy will not be hurt and we shall continue to live in peace and unity. Mutua Ndonga , Political analyst and blogger