Central defender Kennedy Ouma Onyango, popularly known as ‘Vidic’ is the latest signing for Kenya Premier League returnees Nairobi City Stars. The former Kakamega Homeboyz defender signed a two-year deal and will battle it out with Ugandan Yusuf Mukisa, Edin Buliba, Wycliffe Otieno and Salim Abdalla for a starting position. “I believe I made the right choice to join City Stars. It’s a team with big ambitions, quality players, great coaching staff and run in a very professional way. It’s the right place to take the challenge,” said Onyango. Team coordinator Samson Otieno, on receiving ‘Vidic’ said: “He was key to Homeboyz last season where he featured in 20 of the 22 games played. I thank Homeboyz for allowing him to cross over to City Stars after releasing him from his contract. “Vidic is a solid stopper and certainly a good asset and acquisition who will add great value to our team. We welcome him to Simba wa Nairobi,” said Otieno. Onyango is the latest player to join City Stars. Others who have signed for 'Simba wa Nairobi' are Ugandan Yusuf Mukisa, striker Erick Ombija from Gor Mahia and defensive mid Sven Yidah from Kariobangi Sharks. The club has also signed four developmental players Rowland Makati from Vapor Sports, Timothy Ouma from Laiser Hill Academy, Ronney Kola Oyaro from Kenya School of Government (KSG) and keeper Elvis Ochieng Ochoro from Hakati Sportiff—all signed in recent weeks. At the same time, Nairobi City Stars coach Sanjin Alagic has returned to the country after seven months to lead the club through the pre-season ahead of the upcoming Kenyan Premier League (KPL) season. The Bosnian left the country in mid-March for his homeland Sarajevo due to the coronavirus pandemic that disrupted the rest of the National Super League (NSL), as well as all other leagues. “It’s great to be back as it has been a long time out without football,” the Uefa Pro coach told the club’s website. His return coincided with the announcement of kick off dates for the new season, as well as release of draft KPL fixtures. City Stars will play  Western-based teams in their opening five fixtures starting with a home game in Nairobi against Nzoia United. “We are happy to be back in the Premier after four years and we can’t wait to get the season started with our first game against Nzoia United. We want to prepare for that first game like it’s a final then take it game at a time after that. “Our target in our first season back is to make City Stars a stable Premier League outfit, one that will develop young players to a national level with the aim of transferring some players to clubs abroad. We will stay focused and humble,” said Alagic. He added: “Last season, the club restructured and became very stable and organised.