The newly appointed Kisumu City manager Abala Wanga has taken over from the outgoing manager Doris Ombara. Abala, who is the Lake Region Economic Bloc CEO will act as the city manager for six months. Ombara handed over to him on Friday. A letter by County Public Service Board secretary Hesbon Hongo says the appointment will be for six months or until the position is substantively filled. The letter also directed Ombara to hand over to Wanga before proceeding on terminal leave next month. "A comprehensive handover notes duly signed should be submitted to the city board chairman and copies to the county secretary before October 1, 2020," it added. According to the letter, Wanga will be paid an acting allowance at the rate of 20 per cent of his substantive basic salary while other terms of employment remain the same. The county government has already advertised the post and urged qualified women, youths, and persons with disabilities to apply. The CPSB cited Article 184 of the Constitution and Section 29 of the Urban Areas and Cities Act, 2011, to back its decision. Applications must be received by October 8. The successful applicant will have a three-year contract Wanga takes over as Kisumu gears up to host the 2021 Africities summit. The summit organised under the United Cities and Local Governments of Africa (UCLGA) is scheduled for November 16 to 20, 2021. He also comes in at a time when the county starts the process of making the city to face the lake in a bid to attract investments. Governor Anyang Nyong'o plans to build a 26 km promenade along with Lake Victoria. The project will be undertaken through a joint venture by the Kisumu Lakefront Development Corporation and Kenya Urban Roads Authority. The walkway from Camp David to Dunga beach is expected to open up the lakefront for development projects. Former auditor general Edward Ouko, who chairs the corporation, said an Sh25 million seed fund has been allocated by Governor Anyang Nyong’o’s administration to kick-start the project. The fund, he said, will be a gateway to various development projects to be initiated along the lake. Wanga said the focus should be on achieving the ongoing and yet to be implemented projects. “We must remain committed to make Kisumu face the lake. This is my priority as well as initiate all the budgeted projects,” he said. Wanga called for unity and support from stakeholders to help spur development in the city. Ombara 's term ended on August 14 after a three-month extension. "I am leaving the city a happy and grateful lady. I feel fulfilled and grateful for the opportunity given to me to serve. I will look back with pride and gratitude,” she said. Her tenure was, however, not smooth sailing as it was marred by attempts to kick her out of office. She weathered the storm. In 2016, she was involved in a legal battle with former Governor Jack Ranguma, who had transferred her from the docket to the Lake Front Development Secretariat, then a new county agency.