The National Government Affirmative Action Fund has benefitted women and should not be taken away through the BBI process, Kitui Woman Representative Irene Kasalu has said. The fund is managed by the office of the County Woman Representative, a position the Building Bridges Initiative report scraps from the Constitution. Kasalu said that even if the 47 county women MPs were transferred from National Assembly to the Senate, the NGAAF should still be ringfenced for them. She said the 2010 Constitution created their position to help guide and mentor girls, women and young boys. The lawmaker said the fund's invaluable contribution to the improvement of the lives of women cannot be overemphasised. “We are now in a constitutional moment where women representatives would be taken to the Senate. As we go to the Senate, we need to have our NGAAF which has helped us to do a lot of work for our people,” she said. Kasalu spoke at Kitui Township Muslim Secondary School on Tuesday when she launched a campaign to control teenage pregnancies. She also distributed sanitary towels to girls who had attended the ceremony. Some 30 schools received thermoguns, sanitiser and handwashing kits to help combat Covid-19. The legislator said it was through the NGAAF kitty that she was able to organise the event, support the needy and further the anti-teen pregnancy campaign. “It is true that the kitty enabled us to have these girls here today to mentor them, talk to them and provide a role model to them. Because BBI is not cast on stone, that is why we ask our leaders to ensure the 47 women retain a kitty to help them operate,” Kasalu said. She said the campaign was launched because of the escalating number of teen pregnancies. "If the teen pregnancies are not fought effectively, we will have the success stories the country has registered in promoting women emancipation undone," Kasalu said. Kitui Central deputy county commissioner Josphine Kihara decried premature indulgence in sexual activity by young girls. “Some things girls are doing are reserved for the mothers and they should keep off,” the administrator told the big crowd of girls. 