The NPS has dismissed as null and void an announcement by the National Police Service Commission that there would be recruitment of 5,000 police officers. This comes a day after the NPSC held a full commission meeting and made public a decision to hire the constables and 150 cadet officers as well as 250 civilians. The NPS which is headed by Inspector General Hillary Mutyambai in a contradicting tweet denied existence of a police recruitment. "We wish to advice the members of the public to treat information appearing on social media on Police recruitment as null and void. The NPS has not announced any recruitment drive," the tweet by NPS read. NPSC chairperson Eliud Kinuthia had on Thursday announced planned recruitment. The statements lift the lid on the supremacy battle between the commission and Mutyambai. The commission was set to bring in more officers into the service to settle the acute staff shortage as there has been no recruitment in the last two years. It is estimated about 3,000 police officers had left the service in three years. Meanwhile, the government has frozen hiring for the next three years in austerity measures to reduce the country's wage bill. Treasury’s tough conditions for approving funding requests presented by ministries and state departments is expected to put government agencies in inevitable budget cuts of monumental proportions. Targeted in the cuts are allocations for consumable goods, staff upgrade, ICT equipment and funding for parastatals. Treasury CS Ukur Yatani in September said the saved funds will be prioritised to drive the Big Four agenda “to build on the progress made so far as the state confronts unemployment, poverty and inequality.” There will be no recruitment of staff in the next three years unless a ministry, state department or agency (MDA) gets the approval of the Treasury. Yatani, in a circular to all principal secretaries and other accounting officers of the national and county governments, says there will be no costing for recruitment in the 2019-20 budget