When suspects appear in court, they are usually quiet, calm and tentative. But a suspect at a Kibera court was the contrast, instead quarrelling the magistrate and the clerk. This is after he was informed that the magistrate who was hearing his case had been transferred. "Will you proceed with the case or we start it afresh?” the clerk asked. In a rejoinder, the suspect said he should stop joking.”I have already finished with the doctor. I don’t want such jokes. Sitaki hiyo ujinga mumezoea kuchezea watu!” he shouted. Surprised by the reaction, Kibera senior resident magistrate Charles Mwaniki asked him, “Was it an offence to ask you the question?”But the suspect insisted he wouldn’t take “such jokes” with his case. The magistrate asked him to get out and relax.On returning, Mwaniki said his case would proceed on October 8. The suspect would hear none of it, saying his case, which has dragged on since 2016, had to end there and then. He demanded the file be closed. The case will proceed on October 8.  A prosecutor and a magistrate were engaged in a heated debate in a case in which a minor is accused of defiling another underage. "Your honour, the accused is a minor and the complainant is a minor. I hope you are aware. I really don't understand who is the suspect and where is defilement," the Nairobi prosecutor said. "That's is your job to know. Read the facts please," the magistrate responded. The prosecution said that the minor had been dating another minor for sometime and that the accused defiled her. To solve such cases, judicial officers must remain calm and professional. Another suspect accused the prosecution of lacking the know how of preparing a charge sheet. "That is not the content that is required to be in the charge sheet. The prosecutors do not really understand, hence I deny the charges," the man told the court. The magistrate urged him to relax so that the prosecution could read him the particulars. He was later charged with stealing water and was released on bail. 