The Fyre Festival was perhaps the biggest social media scam people fell for. The creators promised a spectacular music festival on a private Island in the Bahamas. They promoted the event heavily on social media by using influencers and top female models. When it was exposed as a fraudulent event, all the influencers distanced themselves from it. Scams happen every day on social media. And trends are the biggest scams of all. People use trends to promote their products and services on social media. I always imagined myself quite capable of spotting a fraudulent activity from a mile away until I fell for one. I recently joined the video-sharing platform Tik Tok. Unlike other social media platforms, various professionals have taken to TikTok to share their expertise. From job coaches to dentists, chefs, gynaecologists and many more. During my numerous mindless scrolls on the platform, I noticed that many dermatologists highly encouraged following a skincare routine. I do not have a routine I simply wash and moisturise. I was intrigued. I also noticed that they recommended a particular brand of skincare products that was and I quote “developed by dermatologist.” Since my skin was already good, I yearned to make it better. I was curious to try the product but couldn’t find it anywhere in the country. Until I happily stumbled across it in one of the high-end malls in Nairobi. I quickly snatched the night moisturiser without thinking twice about the exorbitant price. Less than a week of using the product, my naturally smooth face started breaking out excessively. Although I stopped using the product, my face is still scared and continues to heal. On the other hand, I have to toss out a brand new moisturiser that costs over Sh3000. Now I cannot call the entire product fraudulent because maybe – somewhere, someplace – there is a girl whose skin improved from using the brand. However, it is fraudulent of dermatologists to promote products even if they are actually good. Moreover, promoting a product with the tagline ‘developed by dermatologists’ means that they are endorsing the product 100 percent. A doctor should know better. They know that some products do not work for some people. They should say something like visit your dermatologist to get the product prescribed. Last week (oh, you would think I would have learnt by now) I saw a flash sale by a world-renowned modest fashion wear designer. Since her designs have long been on my wish list, I decided to buy them. Sure enough, the products were on sale. When I clicked on the website the big countdown clock flashed “Time left: 1 hour 40 minutes”. I hurriedly made my purchases and proceeded to check out. Just as I was paying, I noticed an extra $50 charge! Hidden costs. I checked the website on Monday morning and the clock still reads final hour of flash sale. People are in the business of making business. They will always use catchy phrases to hook us. ‘Dentists recommend’ ‘developed by doctors’ ‘lowest price ever’ ‘best in town’ these are but some of the phrases that will make you stop and look… or in some cases buy. They will fill our homepages with influencers paid to promote these products so that they are constantly in our minds. While healing the scars on my face, I contemplate at how easy it is to fall for such rip-offs. The only way to learn is through experience. Before making an online purchase make sure to research the products thoroughly and always take into account the negative reviews.