Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua yesterday accused the ‘system’ of frustrating his political dreams after being required to resign six months before running for President. Justice Weldon Korir last Wednesday ruled the only holders of political office who can stand in a presidential election without relinquishing their offices are the President, the Deputy President or MP. Mutua said the ruling can only be viewed as discriminatory, unfair and unconstitutional. “Why do they fear governors who want to run for presidency? Maybe it is because they know we are the best solution to this country because we understand the problem of mwananchi on the ground,” he said. The governor spoke in Nyeri during the signing of an aquaculture deal between the Fisheries ministry and nine counties. Mutua, who recently launched his presidential bid, said governors are going to take measures, including going to court, to appeal and to change such laws. He wondered why the same did not apply to other political leaders, such as MPs, senators, MCAs and Deputy President. [The ruling, however, did cluster MCAs along with governors]. Mutua said the country should recognise people’s liberties and opportunities and protect them, adding that governors now feel there is a trend of discrimination against them. The governor said if Cabinet Secretaries, though appointed, are charged, they have to step aside. The same applies to governors but not to MPs, both of whom are elected. “There seems to be double standards when it comes to governance,” he said. He termed the move as a fight against devolution by people who do not believe it is here to stay. “It is important for us to be a country of fairness and a country that interprets the law in a way that captures the mood of the people on the ground,” he said. Mutua termed the country’s politics as politics of favouritism, tribalism, violence and politics of trying to push opposition down. He also faulted the directive by the National Security Advisory Committee that one cannot hold a function before notifying the police not less than three days ahead and getting permission. He, however, blamed politicians for the decision, saying some of them have been using youth to cause chaos in meetings. “So I understand where they are coming from and so I will comply and ensure I give letters beforehand,” he said. “All I ask is, if I am complying, let the other forces also comply and allow me to move around and talk to people in this country and listen to problems that face them.” In the event, a Sh15 billion project titled Aquaculture Business Development Programme was unveiled. It is funded by the International Fund for Agricultural Development and the national government. Present were Governors Anyang Nyong’o (Kisumu), Mutahi Kahiga (Nyeri), Martin Wambora (Embu) and Tharaka Nithi’s Muthomi Njuki. Edited by T Jalio