The four-times London Marathon winner Eliud Kipchoge has said that he developed hearing problems after the first 25 kilometers of the race. Kipchoge was eyeing to win the 40th London Marathon on Sunday but ended up at position eight in 2:06:49. He posted in his Twitter account that one of his ears blocked, and it could not open anymore. The Ineos Challenge record holder has however promised to fight for the title another day. “But this is how the sport is, we should accept defeat and focus for the winning next time. Thanks for the support,” Kipchoge said. He added that " "If you want to enjoy sport then you have to accept the results. I congratulate the top finishers, and that is how to enjoy the sport." He has appreciated Kenyans and his fans for the tremendous support, saying that he is taking the defeat in a positive way. The race was won by Ethiopian Shura Kitata in a thrilling sprint finish to claim an unexpected victory ahead of Kenyan Vincent Kipchumba. Sisay Lemma from Ethiopia became third in 2:05:45closely followed by his counterpart Mosinet Geremew in 2:06:04. Ethiopians dominated the race as Mule Wasihun crossed the tape in 2:06:08 to finish at number five while his counterpart Tamirat Tola become sixth in 2:06:41. Despite the setback, Kenyans have congratulated Kipchoge for his efforts, crossing the finishing line amid the challenges. ODM party leader Raila Odinga said that "we must always encourage our youth to know that to try, fail, and try again is not a weakness but an essential life skill. "I commend Eliud Kipchoge for the effort. Congratulations Vincent Kipchumba for coming 2nd and Shura Kitata of Ethiopia for the deserved victory. Earlier in the women's elite London Marathon, Brigid Kosgei from Kenya defended her title. Kosgei, 26, went clear of world champion Ruth Chepngetich after mile 18 and finished in 2:18.58, three minutes and three seconds ahead of American Sara Hall. She was almost five minutes outside her world record set in Chicago last year.