Amnesty International Kenya has joined the country in condemning the recent political violence witnessed in many parts of Kenya, most recently in Kenol, Murang'a County. The event lead to the deaths of Chris Kariuki aged 21 and Peter Mbothi 15. In a statement released on Wednesday, Amnesty Executive Director Irungu Houghton said that in line with the Constitution and international human rights law, every citizen has the freedom to exercise their right, "To make political choices, participate in political party activities, freely express themselves and assemble publicly. These civil and political rights underpin our democracy." He however said that these rights are not absolute and that they must be exercised in accordance with the law and with respect for other peoples’ rights. "Article 81 of the constitution sets a standard for all election related activities to be free of violence, intimidation, undue influence and corruption. Political zoning therefore has no place in our democracy," Irungu said. The director added that organizers of political rallies are reminded that under Article 37 every person has the right to peaceably assemble or demonstrate without weapons. Under Kenyan law, organizers of assemblies and gatherings should notify the police. The police have an obligation to facilitate these meetings and provide security for members of the public regardless of their political persuasion. "We urge politicians and their supporters to respect the rights of others to have divergent views. We call on all to desist from inciting others to violence, hate speech or the discrimination of others in line with Article 33 (2)," he said. He added that he calls on all State Officers and especially the Police Service to comply with the spirit and letter of Article 21 and 245 of the constitution, stating that they have a fundamental duty to remain politically neutral and non-partisan and protect the human rights of all. "While we note the NSAC similar caution to the media and social media, we remind the Committee that the freedom and independence of the media is protected from state control or interference." Article 34 expressly prevents the state from penalizing any person for any opinion and the content of any broadcast, publication or dissemination. All complaints against the media should be addressed through the self regulating mechanism of the Media Council of Kenya, the Complaints Commission and the Communications and Multimedia Appeals Tribunal. "Lastly, Amnesty International Kenya calls on the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights and the National Police Service to conclude investigations into the circumstances leading to the death of the two in Muranga last weekend with a view of prosecuting those responsible," Irungu concluded. On Wednesday, Deputy President William Ruto alleged there was a scheme to have police stay away from the Murang'a function he attened on Sunday which ended up claiming the lives of two Kenyans. “It is tragic. It was actually premeditated that there should be violence for whatever reasons,” he said. “Let us use all other forms of competition but violence should be out of reach of any political competition. It must not be in the matrix and equation of our politics.” Speaking during a press conference on Wednesday, Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua said politicians are inciting and trying to radicalise the youth. He directed that all public meetings be held in compliance with the Public Order Act, failing which culprits will be penalised. "A convener or any person intending to hold meeting shall notify the officer in a commanding station three days to but not 14 days before the procession," he said.