Newly appointed Gor Mahia head coach Roberto Oliveira has set the bar high, hardly a day after overseeing his first training session. The Brazilian oversaw his first session yesterday and according to his assistant Patrick Odhiambo, retaining the league and defying odds to win the Caf Champions League are his irreducible minimums for the new season. Oliveira joined Gor last weekend, replacing Steven Polack who threw in the towel while on leave in Finland. With Gor seemingly peerless in the local elite competition, Odhiambo says his new boss is keen to guide the club in redeeming it's image at the continental level having had an underwhelming campaign last season. Additionally, the former Rayon Sports gaffer wants to win the coveted continental tournament, which has become a preserve for West and North African teams in the recent years. "He wants the club to win every competition we will feature in the new season and the subsequent ones. He was clear with the boys that he wants to retain the league and win the Caf Champions League. He was pleased with the boys whom he took through the drills yesterday and I am looking forward to working with him, " said the former Sony Sugar tactician Odhiambo, in the meantime, believes the exit of Wellington Ochieng will not be felt going forward. The speedy right back parted company with the record champions on Sunday but Odhiambo says the duo of Kelly Wesonga and Kenyan international Philemon Otieno are equal to task. Ochieng, who joined Gor in 2016 from Muhoroni Youth had been a mainstay at the defence from the time Otieno suffered a career threatening injury in August last year and was being tipped to give the latter a run for his money in the starting roles in the new season. "Ochieng was one of the longest serving players in the squad but his departure will not be felt. We have Otieno, who is coming up well after almost a year out due to an injury. I have worked with Wesonga before at Sony and he has the mettle to don the Gor shirt and even walk to the starting team, " said the former Chemelil Sugar coach.