Lecturers have asked Education CS George Magoha to name a substantive vice-chancellor for Masinde Muliro University within 21 days. The Kakamega-based university has been without substantive leadership for two years after the expiry of the term of the late Prof Frederick Otieno in November 2018. Recruitment of the university VC and three DVCs whose terms expired stalled after activist Okiya Omutatah moved to the High Court to stop the process citing involvement of former council members on the interviewing panel by the Public Service Commission. In a letter dated October 22, the University Academic Staff Union chapter chairman Robinson Oduma said recruitment of a vice-chancellor and DVCs should be concluded after the interviews were conducted by the PSC. "The purpose of this letter is to request you to conclude the process of recruiting the vice chancellor, the deputy vice chancellor administration and finance, the deputy vice chancellor academic and student affairs, and the deputy vice chancellor planning, research and innovation within 21 days from the date of this letter," Oduma wrote. The PSC had submitted three candidates who emerged top in the interviews. They included Joseph Bosire who is a deputy vice-chancellor at Jaramogi Oginga Odinga University of Science and Technology. Bosire emerged top during the interviews. He was followed by Sibilkhe Makhanu and Mburugu who were second and third respectively. Omtatah sued on grounds that inclusion of three former council members on the interview panel compromised the recruitment process. But in a judgment delivered on October 18, by the Employment and Labour Relations Court judge Stephen Radido, the court ruled the inclusion of the two was not illegal and fatal to the recruitment process. Sources within the university council told the Star that the council was divided on whether to proceed with the recruitment process and name the best candidate or restart the process afresh. Those supporting the ongoing process argue that the court ruling did not discredit the process. But those who want a fresh process say the panel was biased and could have favoured some individuals. Edited by Henry Makori