A judge has given lawyer Zehrabanu Janmohammed permission to manage the vast estate of ex-President Daniel Moi believed to be worth billions of shillings, paving way for distribution in the next six months. High Court judge Aggrey Muchelule gave the grant on October 9 following a successful application by the lawyer, who is the executor of Moi's will. “Be it known that on the 9th day of October 2020 grant of probate of the last written Will of all the estate of Daniel Toroitich Arap Moi late of Nakuru, Kabarak, who died domiciled in the Republic of Kenya on 4th day of February 2020 at Nairobi hospital a copy of which Will was proved in this court and that administration of all the estate of the deceased which by law devolves to and vests in personal representative were granted by this court to Zehrabanu Janmohammed,” the grant read. This means that if anyone has a claim against the estate he or she can officially move to court. The court issued the grant after it established that there was no opposition. The former President had eight children, namely Gideon, Jennifer, Jonathan, John Mark, Raymond, Philip, Doris and June. All the children are alive except Jonathan who died in April last year. Under Kenyan law, after one dies, the family is required to nominate an administrator who then files an application seeking grant to execute the will. The grant follows the gazettement of application and is usually issued if there's no challenge from any parties. From public reports, part of the estate for distribution could be the Ngata Flower Farm and Sian Roses where Moi had shares. Moi has shares in Standard Media Group (KTN) together with his long-time aide Joshua Kulei and son. Baringo Senator Gideon Moi. Moi had 50 per cent shareholding at Lima Kenya – a firm trading in agricultural equipment, as well as in Air Kenya which he co-owned with the late former Cabinet Minister Nicholas Biwott. The Mois are among the seven shareholders of the National Milling Corporation and also had vast landholdings in Laikipia and Eldoret. Moi also had shareholdings in American Life Insurance Company; 50 per cent at Kenol and Kobil – sold to France’s Rubis. Biwott had 50 per cent shareholding in the latter. The late president also had a holding in the Nairobi Airport Services. He also had shares in Kenchic. Moi also owned six per cent stake at Rai Plywood Eldoret, the rest owned by the Rai family. (Edited by o.o.)