What is being created as a Luo-Kikuyu alliance will work this time round. The Kikuyus have found themselves in a tight spot that they are unable to move out of. They have no successor strong enough that can challenge anybody for the presidency When Jomo Kenyatta was president he had very strong people like Mwai Kibaki and Charles Njonjo. When Kibaki took power, he brought Uhuru  Kenyatta on board. However, when Uhuru was elected president he did not bring anybody. He tried to nurture Peter Kenneth through the Nairobi county governor but that backfired. Central Kenya people have no option but to support Raila because the candidate on the other side is William Ruto. So it will be a battle between Raila and Ruto The region will not vote as a bloc in the 2022 general election but will instead see a split for the first in Mt Kenya region. It is going to be a historic split. A split in 2002 was between Kibaki and Uhuru. But this time round it will be outsiders from the Mt Kenya region. The president does enjoy the support of most members from the region. The President has panicked that he has no successor and wants to go through the elders to push through his agenda. The Luos operate through the council of elders and that is why the Kikuyus are equally saying they will operate through the Kikuyu Council of Elders. From the Kisii side, Fred Matiangi is using the council of elders as well. It is going to be a community kind of discussion and we are likely to see this engagement going forward. The youths however do not agree with the elders. Ruto's star is being dimmed daily. It looks like the system has unleashed itself without restraint. They have decided to be so merciless on clipping his powers before 2021. They want William into political oblivion before 2021 and this has turned into an open battle which they to win. The only way for Ruto is to dash to court, but before the court pronounces itself, they would have taken him to the periphery. William Ruto is going to be beaten into submission.