Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has called on Mt Kenya residents to resist any attempt by outsiders to divide them for political gain. Mutua said though the region boasts of having produced three presidents since Independence as a result of its unity, it has started being divided by outsiders. Founding President Jomo Kenyatta, retired President Mwai Kibaki and the current Head of State Uhuru Kenyatta are from the region. But Mutua said there are people out to poison minds of residents and cause confusion without any form of opposition from locals. “It is like you feel like you have been in power for so long and so you are taking it for granted. You have agreed to be used by other people to divide the house of Mumbi which is not good at all,” he said in Nyeri on Wednesday. The 2022 presidential hopeful said Mt Kenya should unite behind their leaders, say no to division and work hand in hand with with them. There are some people from other regions, he said,  who are happy to see the region divided. It is time for the region to forge unity so that they can form coalitions with other like-minded people who will help them better their lives. He said he is determined to take Kenya back on track from where retired President Kibaki left, it saying after his retirement, the economy has not been doing well because of wrangles in the Jubilee administration. Mutua who has pitched camp in the region since Monday spoke before his tour of markets in Nyeri town and Othaya. He was also expected to proceed to Nyandarua, Laikipia, Kirinyaga and Kiambu, among others counties in the region. “I am not here to discuss people but ideas and concepts that will establish permanent systems that will enable Kenyans improve their economic status,” he said. Mutua said he was meeting people in the region to listen to their problems and the issues they want to be addressed by him upon assuming the presidency in 2022. Mutua thanked the Mt Kenya region, saying he has been mentored by former President Kibaki and Uhuru and it is his time to pay back. “Therefore, this is the time to reciprocate people of Mt Kenya by serving them and ensuring I initiate development projects similar to those started by Kibaki and fulfilling the Big 4 Agenda started by Kenyatta,” he said. He faulted leaders who tell the people that they owe them saying that is a sense of entitlement. Instead, he said, leaders are the ones who owe the people for electing them into office and they should reciprocate by offering them services and making their lives better. (edited by o. owino)