Hundreds of elders from President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Mount Kenya backyard will endorse ODM leader Raila Odinga for president this weekend. The delegation of more than 500 elders on Saturday will make a historic trip to Raila’s Bondo home —popularly known as Kango Kajaramogi — where the 'surprise' declaration will be made. The meeting, the first of its kind, is the clearest indication that influential figures close to State House are keen on backing Raila and not Deputy President William Ruto for the country’s top job. On Wednesday, the Star exclusively reported Uhuru’s inner circle has concluded only Raila can stop Ruto’s march to State House. Raila has not yet declared. “During the meeting, the [Kikuyu] elders are going to publicly announce that as far as they are concerned, Raila is their 2022 candidate,” a source familiar with the Saturday event told the Star. The Luo Council of Elders and several MPs from Raila’s Nyanza backyard will attend. After the Bondo meeting, the Luo elders and select political leaders will also be hosted for the second part of the meeting in Nyeri county on October 30. Raila’s elder brother and EALA MP Oburu Odinga confirmed to the Star preparations are in top gear to welcome the visitors. He declined to elaborate. "For us, we are preparing to host them. A visitor is the one who comes with an agenda. It’s our visitor, whom we are eager to host, who will tell us how they see things,” Oburu said. “When a visitor comes calling, you wait to listen to their message. You cannot be the one setting the agenda. Issues will be canvassed at the meeting." On the same Saturday, former Prime Minister Raila and the President are expected to attend an inter-faith national prayer service at State House, Nairobi. Analysts say the endorsements are designed to reorganise and rearrange the country’s succession politics, with the ultimate prize being to realign the Mt Kenya voting bloc. The Luos and the Kikuyus have been the strongest antagonists in most post-Independence elections. However, the two communities worked together at two critical historical moments — at Independence when Jomo Kenyatta became the first president — and in 2002 when Kenyans ended Kanu’s 24-year rule through the election of Mwai Kibaki On Thursday, Kikuyu Council of Elders chairman Wachira Kiago confirmed they will travel to Bondo. They said when they are united with Luo Nyanza, those seeking the region's vote cannot obstruct their goal. “We are now friends; there is nothing that can stop us from engaging each other. We will meet with Nyanza elders and expect they will also visit us. The cohesion will bring lasting peace between us,” he said. The elders’ endorsements come months after Uhuru’s man and Jubilee vice chairman David Murathe told Kenyans to brace for Raila’s presidency. “We think it’s time Kenyans rewarded the years of struggle of Raila Amollo Odinga. They owe it to him…2022 will be a Mandela Moment,” he said. The same message was reiterated on Tuesday by veteran politician Maina Kamanda. “Kenyans should prepare for President Raila Odinga in 2022. He is the best bet for the future as he will not plunder public resources,” Kamanda told the Star. Already Luo MPs have been whipped to attend the Bondo meeting and witness the historic declaration that will further cement the Uhuru-Raila handshake deal. Through their Duol chairman, Seme MP James Nyikal, the elected leaders from the community have been urged not to miss the all-important function. “We have been instructed not to be absent, we were being invited through the chair of the Duol,” an MP who requested anonymity told Star. Duol is an informal forum bringing together all elected Luo leaders and it provides a platform where  leaders discuss critical issues affecting the community. The Duol meetings are always held in turns at the MPs’ residences. On Thursday, a number of MPs were guarded about the meeting, fearing they will be viewed as those divulging details to the media. “I have been unwell. Is there a meeting? Let me find out,” was all Alego Usonga MP Sam Atandi said when asked about purpose of the meeting. Bondo MP Gideon Ochanda said he was in Parliament and told the Star to call later. Raila has not announced that his name will be on the presidential ballot in 2022, but all indications point to a fifth stab at the presidency. In August, none other Raila’s elder brother Oburu Odinga shocked the nation when he indicated they were finally assured of winning in 2022 since the so-called system was now on their side, remarks that ignited DP Ruto's camp. “Why have we not gone to State House when we have won the presidency before? It’s because there is something we have been missing. That thing is called the system. And now we are with Uhuru Kenyatta who is holding the system,” Oburu said. Raila, the AU special envoy for infrastructure, termed Oburu's comments his personal sentiments. A source familiar with the endorsement said the Kikuyu elders were offended by insults to former First Lady Mama Ngina by known Ruto allies, pushing them closer to backing Raila. The situation, the Star has learnt, has been worsened by the recent mayhem that led to the death of two men during Ruto's visit to Kenol, Murang'a, on  Sunday. The Star has established that the Saturday meeting is a culmination of a series of meetings between the two communities, known for their love-hate relationship since Independence. A source aware of the details of Saturday's function said there has been a number of meetings in Nairobi and Kisumu between select leaders of the two communities, including elders. “A few days ago their leaders (Kikuyu leaders) met elected leaders and elders and they performed their ritual as per their tradition,” the source said. (Edited by V. Graham)