Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya has commissioned the first phase of the Sh150 million Mwakalanga dam in Lunga Lunga. The dam will produce 696.9 million litres of water and is expected to be a game-changer in ending perennial shortage in the county. It is also meant to provide locals with clean and safe water for domestic use and agricultural purposes. The locals who had for long trek miles in search of the commodity. The dam will supply water to over 2,400 residents coming from the villages of Naiserian, Kalalani, Magombani, Kilimangodo, Mwangulu, Mwanya wa Bugu, Magogoni and many others. Speaking on Wednesday at Mwereni, Mvurya said the dam will bring massive sustainable development in the area. He said apart from serving domestic purposes, the dam will spur economic activities by promoting agribusiness. “Activities like farming and livestock keeping will trigger several business undertakings that will expedite the growth of the economy in this area,” he said. He told the locals to embrace farming as it was the only way to evade poverty and hunger. Mvurya said the county is determined to offer locals free certified seedlings and ploughing services to make farming easy and raise county food production. He was thrilled by the completion of the dam’s first phase, saying it met the expectations that will see the entire project become successful. The phase involved installing pipelines and constructing water points to Mwakalanga and Naiserain and adding troughs and composite filtration units. Phases two, three and four will involve connecting pipes and extending the supply of water to various villages surrounding the locality. According to Mvurya, the dam will also open up employment opportunities to the locals living around. Currently, Nyalani and Chanzou dams in Vigurungani and Samburu benefit the residents. The governor said similar mega-projects are being undertaken in various areas of the county to speed up development. Mvurya was accompanied by deputy Fatuma Achani who warned people against spearheading hate speech and tribal politics. Edited by Henry Makori