Deputy President William Ruto on Monday had to defend himself for engaging in early campaigns ahead of the 2022 General Election. This is after President Uhuru Kenyatta took a swipe at him, accusing the DP of having lost focus on the Jubilee agenda and started early campaigns as he seeks the country's top seat. Uhuru said he does not understand how his deputy forgot about their goals and started focusing on 2022 campaigns. He made reference to a relay race where one runner instead of taking the baton and going forward to the finish line, runs in the opposite direction. "Tulisonga pamoja lakini hapa kati kati ndio sasa 2022 ikaingilIa akasahau yale mengine but nasema tutulize boli.. (We walked together, but somewhere along the journey, 2022 matters became the priority and he forgot everything else. But I'm telling him to take it slow.." Uhuru said. Speaking at the Bomas of Kenya on Monday, Uhuru said 2022 will come and go. While comparing presidency to a relay race, Uhuru said instead of Ruto waiting to be handed the baton, he has already started running in the opposite direction. "2022 itakuja mwaka hairudi nyuma.. Tuko relay, lakini sasa my brother William anapinduka anakimbia nyuma..mos mos.. utafika tu (2022 will come.. we are in a relay race but my brother William has decided to run in the opposite direction. We will reach there..." he said amid laughter. As Uhuru laughed, Ruto stood up and took to the podium and whispered a joke in the President's ear, to which he laughed, then went back to his seat. The DP said,"Niliona nimetolewa namba 9 ndio maana nikaamua (I was displaced from my position number 9 and that is why I had to).," He and the president both burst into laughter as Uhuru tapped Ruto's shoulder. Nine is a football reference for a team's main striker. Ruto had a humiliating moment earlier when making his speech after delegates booed him as he expressed his reservations against the BBI report. He was booed by delegates, but insisted on finishing his speech, saying others had their time to talk and he too deserved his chance to speak.