Kisumu All Stars are confident to maintain their KPL status ahead of Saturday’s first leg promotion/relegation play-off against Vihiga United. Coach Andrew Aroka admitted that the leg to be played in Kakamega County will not be an easy task but said that they are targeting a win at Mumias Sports Complex and finish off the job in the return leg at Moi Stadium in Kisumu. “We have been training for a month even though not full training because of Covid-19 and I’m upbeat that we shall overcome Vihiga United to retain our KPL status. This is a very important game for us,” Aroka said. He added, “Vihiga United is a very good team and with a good track record at home. Considering that they finished third in the NSL log, they are a good team and we expect a good game". Popularly known Otenga,  Kisumu All Stars will welcome Micheal Owino who signed for Wazito for the two games. Chief Executive Officer Nicholas Ochieng said goalkeeper Gad Mathews who joined Gor Mahia will not be available for the first leg. “Gad is still sorting out his contract with Gor Mahia but we expect him for the second leg,” said Ochieng. The team finished 16th on the KPL log and won only two games before the season was canceled due to the suspension of sports activities following the Covid-19 pandemic. Despite joining new clubs, the two players are eligible to feature in the playoff. He said the club is yet to settle on the technical bench after they advertised the positions in September. He said the management committee is expected to unveil the new technical bench after the playoff. On his part, Vihiga United coach Sammy Okoth said they are targeting a return to the top tier league after two seasons in the National Super League. “Despite the fact that we have not trained together for long, our aim remains a return to the KPL. We want to win convincingly at home before we head to Kisumu for the second leg on Wednesday next week,” he said. He added that the players have mostly been training individually for the last eight months to keep their fitness levels high. The Vihiga County sponsored team finished third on the NSL log. NSL champions Nairobi City Stars and Bidco United gained automatic qualification to the KPL when the season was canceled by the Football Kenya Federation. Silibwet FC from Bomet and Mwatate FC from Taita Taveta county were promoted to the NSL. Soy FC and MCF FC will meet in a play-off to determine the third team to be promoted to the second-tier league.