Teenage girls in Mwingi West, Kitui county, are being mentored to avoid early sex after an assessment found 80 per cent are already sexually active. The county has recorded more than 1,000 teenage pregnancies in six months during the coronavirus pandemic. To fight the trend and juvenile delinquency, an outreach programme is teaching girls aged 13 and above how to survive without being lured into early sex. The initiative is by a humanitarian organisation in Mwingi West, Persis Arm of Compassion, in collaboration with area MP Charles Nguna. Lillian Mwinzi, who represented Nguna during a session, said the MP  was concerned that many girls risk dropping out of school due to early pregnancies. “Ever since we started this initiative a few months ago, the cases of teenage pregnancies have gone down and we are happy that our girls have taken our counselling seriously,” Mwinzi said. She said more than 4,600 girls have been reached and the feedback is good as the reported cases of pregnancies among teens is dropping. Persis CEO Esther Muli said many girls opened up about the things leading them to early sex. She said parents have a key role in ensuring their teenagers remain busy either with studies or household chores. She said their study found about 80 per cent of girls age 13-18 in Mwingi are already engaging in active sexual activity. Regina Schola, a Form 3 student in Kiomo Secondary School, termed the counselling instrumental to girls, as life under Covid-19 has been tough for them. Schola urged girls to desist from engaging in early sex and instead focus on education for a better future. “Premarital sex will only ruin most girls' futures as many will drop out of school following pregnancies,” Regina said. Angela Katee, a Form 4 student at Itoloni Girls’ Secondary School, said many girls, especially those who have been made pregnant, are struggling with stigma as everyone seems to sideline them. Katee urged the national government to reopen schools as soon as possible to prevent more girls from ruining their future while at home. Kiomo chief Benedetta Ngei said five minors in her location had been reported pregnant during this pandemic period. She thanked the area MP for coming up with the initiative to save girls in the constituency. Ngei urged parents to remain vigilant and ensure their teenage children are busy and that their interaction with adults is minimised. Edited by T Jalio