A former military officer on death sentence for killing a man after an Sh80,000 mercury business deal backfired will now serve 30 years in jail after winning his appeal. Edward Muriuki was convicted in 2017 and sentenced to death for killing Patrick Kariuki. Aggrieved, Muriuki appealed against the decision. Appeal Court judges Agnes Murgor, Sankale ole Kantai and Fatuma Sichale on October 23 ruled that Muriuki had the intention to cause Kariuki's death as the main cause of death was wounds and bruises inflicted after he was stabbed. “In the end, we find that all elements of the offence of murder were proved to the required standard. Consequently, the appeal on conviction fails and is dismissed”, the judges ruled. The judges also noted that Muriuki was a first offender and had been in custody for almost eight years prior to his sentencing. "We have also taken into consideration the painful and torturous manner in which the deceased met his death. “Taking the totality of the circumstances into consideration, we set aside the sentence of death and substitute it with a sentence of 30 years imprisonment with effect from November 2, 2017, when the appellant was sentenced," they ruled. The prosecution said that on July 22, 2009, officer Maxwell Otieno received a report from Grace Gathoni (the deceased’s wife) and Jane Wanjiku that Kariuki was missing. According to Grace, she had last seen her husband at 6.30pm on July 21, 2009, on Ngara estate, Nairobi. He left her to go to town on account that his friend, Hannington Mbaka, alias Daudi, had called him requesting for bus fare to go to Embu. She said she had not seen the deceased since and all phone calls to him were going unanswered. Jane, Kariuki’s associate in the sale of gemstones, said she had called him at around 8.30pm on July 22, 2009, but before they could converse, he informed her that he had been abducted by three people. Kariuki later sent a text message to Jane informing her that he was at a police station and that marked the end of his communication. Officer Otieno commenced investigations with the assistance of Kariuki's family, which led them to the deceased’s account at Equity Bank, Moi Avenue Branch. It was discovered that several cash withdrawals had been made from the deceased’s account from an ATM. Equity Bank blocked the account on July 27, 2009, and the same night Kariuki's body was found in Mwihoko area of Kasarani and taken to City Mortuary where he was identified by his family members. Dr Njau Munami carried out a postmortem and found that he had multiple face and head fractures, bruises on the chest and multiple stab wounds mainly on the neck. He attributed the death to stab wounds. Police investigations led to the location of Muriuki’s house in Kahawa Wendani where a search was conducted and military items recovered. Muriuki was subsequently arrested and detained with the help of members of the public. Edith Njoki testified that she was well acquainted with Muriuki, as her husband was from Muriuki’s clan in Embu. She stated that in 2008, the accused visited her father, Joseph Njagi, at his home. His mission was to find out if Joseph knew of any mercury dealer. Two weeks later, he was able to locate a mercury broker in Embu through his neighbour, Emily Wanjiku. The mercury broker was Mbaka who introduced Muriuki to Kariuki who was said to be in the business of selling mercury. Consequently, Muriuki’s wife, one Nelly Maitu, met with Kariuki in Embu town at a hotel. Daudi, Joseph, Emily and Edith were present at the meeting. The deceased demanded Sh150,000 for the mercury but Muriuki’s wife had Sh80,000 only. The deceased took the money (Sh80,000.00) and Muriuki’s wife promised to pay the balance (Sh70,000) once they arrived in Nairobi. They all parted ways and a year later, Edith received a phone call allegedly from the accused threatening to kill them all. Although Edith together with Emily and Joseph were arrested in connection with the deceased’s murder, they were later released from the Kasarani police station after recording statements. Martin Wekesa, a liaison officer with Safaricom, investigated the deceased’s sim card and discovered that it had been used by Muriuki on three different occasions after the deceased had reportedly gone missing. In defence,  Muriuki admitted that he knew Mbaka, who was his rural home neighbour. He stated that they met in July 2009 at the Githurai stage. Mbaka informed him that a relative of his had been arrested at Kasarani police station and the relative’s wife had given him an ATM card to withdraw money for him and he required his assistance to withdraw the money. He obliged and they went to Equity Bank, where Mbaka gave him the ATM card and the pin number. He withdrew Sh20,000 and was given Sh500 in return. The following day, they met again in Embu town and Mbaka told him he was still looking for money for the same cause. He performed a similar transaction, instructed Mbaka on how to operate the ATM machine and was rewarded with another Sh500. They parted ways and did not see each other again. He denied knowing the deceased, communicating with him or engaging in the purchase of mercury from the deceased. He maintained that he was unmarried and hence, did not know the woman (Nelly) who allegedly paid money to the deceased in exchange for the mercury and that he had no reason to kill Kariuki.