A first-term MP is afraid for his life after his affair with the wife of a governor exploded. The superstar legislator has eaten the forbidden fruit so often to a point the familiarity has made him quench his thirst in the car at open places. The governor, who has got wind of the affair, is worried that it may jeopardise his bigger political ambitions and is contemplating revenge. There is trouble in a prominent secondary school in Nairobi. This is barely a year after some of its teachers were found guilty by the Commission on Administrative Justice of offences ranging from corruption to abuse of office. A mole whispered to Corridors that the school has resorted to victimisation and intimidation of those suspected to have leaked their activities to the Ombudsman led by Florence Kajuju (pictured). The management is said to be reshuffling and making staff do work that is unrelated to their profession. Some are said to have been removed from the payroll for refusing to be intimidated. The school has also reportedly refused to pay non-teaching staff. A group of traffic police officers in Homa Bay county are said to be in a secret deal with some court officials to harass "uncooperative" matatu operators. The cops and the renegade judicial officers are in the game of keeping at bay the uncooperative lot. The unlucky operators normally face illegal charges from the police who may still arraign them for various offences as a scheme to punish them. The officers erect roadblocks at strategic areas from 5 am to 8 am to collect protection fees and to "punish" new matatus in the area. Hundreds of boda bodas also pay daily fees for operation permits. A teachers' training college has become the talk of the town after the management resorted to crude means to force students with fee balances to seek accommodation elsewhere. The students, who were returning after a long break following the Covid-19 pandemic, were shocked to find all their mattresses missing. The students are now sleeping on bedsheets laid on the metallic beds as most do not have money to get accommodation outside or clear their fee balances. The students are said to be considering taking to the streets. They are wondering why the management chose to punish them that way yet the effects of the pandemic are well known.