The government will invest more money in the construction of earth dams to harvest rain water in drought-prone Garissa county. This is one of the state's long-term solutions to the effects of drought in the region. Speaking in Masalani, Ijara subcounty during an inspection tour of water projects, Water PS Joseph Irungu said the government was determined to permanently address the issue of water shortage. Irungu said the government will also rehabilitate Masalani water project that had stalled to ensure there is enough water for the town's residents. “We know water is everything here and that is why we want to heavily invest in earth dams to help locals access water even during drought,” Irungu said. The PS said both levels of government have been doing water trucking to residents in far-flung areas during the dry spell. The Meteorological Department’s forecast for October-December indicates the North Eastern counties of Garissa, Wajir, Marsabit, Isiolo and Mandera will receive below average rainfall. Already hundreds of livestock in Garissa have crossed over to the Boni forest in search of water and pasture after local water pans started drying up. The government through Northern Water Works Development Agency is already constructing a Sh43 million earth dam expected to be complete by next March. The PS also inspected the ongoing works on Garissa sewerage project, which is being undertaken by the national government at a cost of Sh679 million Ijara MP Sophia Abdinoor said the dam will go a long way in reducing conflicts during dry spells. "We witnessed bloody clashes in the past as locals converge at water points during dry spells. This project and many more to come will reduce such conflicts," Abdinoor said. She said locals especially women used to trek for long distances in search of water. “We appreciate what the government has done. Such dams will change the lives of our people. We appeal to the national government to invest more on such projects,” she added. Edited by Henry Makori