The recruitment of the CEO of a Coast-based agency was mired in drama, intrigue and old-fashioned backstabbing. A little bird whispers to Corridors that a PS, known for interfering and micromanaging the agency’s operations, despises the CEO. The CEO is an industry guru, but the PS is said to have vowed to block his appointment. The PS allegedly employed crude machinations to deny the CEO a fair interview. Corridors understands that the PS cajoled, threatened and blackmailed the agency's board. Industry players have written to the responsible CS to cancel the sham interview and are asking DCI George Kinoti to investigate claims of threats and blackmail. A governor and his deputy in western Kenya are said to be no longer in talking terms over 2022 succession politics. The two, who had been known for their cordial working relationship, are no longer seen together. The deputy no longer attends meetings convened by the governor or represents the county chief in official functions whenever he is away. Matters went south when the deputy realised he is not his boss's preferred successor. The deteriorating relationship came to the fore when the deputy governor failed to show up at a community event after the governor assured residents he would send his deputy. Residents of a constituency in Nairobi are wondering why their MP no longer visits them after buying a house in a posh area of the city. They voted for the MP when he still lived with them and believed he would articulate their issues well given that he was one of them. The MP, however, has moved and is hardly seen in the constituency. A resident said he is no longer active on social media and all they see of him are his images on billboards. Perhaps the bad roads, water and sewage problems in the area were too much for him. A lecturer at a university in western Kenya is the talk of the town after one of the students he was cohabiting with posted screenshots of his nudes. The lecturer has gone into hiding to save face and his marriage. He is said to have had affairs with dozens of his students at the university and neighbouring institutions. The student who exposed him was furious after she found out he was a womaniser and married, yet he had always promised to marry her.