Cierume was brought into the world some time in the 19th century, before the British colonialists set foot in Mbeereland. Her name can be said to have originated from the term “urume”, which means fierceness or courage. This girl truly lived up to her name. The story of Cierume, the Dancing Warrior among the Mbeere community, continues as narrated by Google Arts and Culture, being part of the 61 folk and cultural heroes stories to commemorate Mashujaa Day. The warrior grew into a woman, and so did her character. The people were quick to take notice. Her courage displayed itself when she decided to fight against a band of Kamba men who raided her land. Armed with her dancing stick, she helped her people win the battle. “News of her deeds were soon on everyone’s lips in Mbeere. It is said that in Mbeere and Embu, no woman could be compared to Cierume,” the story on Google Arts said. “Even among the Kamba, Kikuyu and the Meru, only two women could compare to her. Ciokaraine daughter of Barungu from Meru and a Gikuyu woman named Wangu wa Makeri.” Shortly afterwards, Cierume was appointed to a leadership position. This made the men envy her and they started speaking ill of her, spreading rumours and questioning her ability to lead, saying tradition did not allow it. “At one point, a man insulted her but Cierume did not say a word back at him. She instead stood up to him and beat him mercilessly in front of his peers,” reads the story. “He was lucky to be saved from her anger by his fellow men. Her fame continued to grow so much that she was appointed chief of the Mbeere people during the colonial era.” Cierume was so fearless against the British invaders that she called the European district commissioner names when she complained about forced slavery on her people. “In the end, Cierume lost her chieftainship as a result of a conspiracy by the jealous men. In spite of this, her legacy lives on and her name continues to inspire Embu women to show determination in everything they do,” reads the story on Google Arts. Speaking virtually during the event, President Uhuru Kenyatta said the stories teach ideals, courage, leadership. He added they brought hope and inspiration to our own communities and weaved into what makes us Kenyan. “We are using technology to relate young people to folk and cultural heroes,” he said. These heroes include Kings, Queens, Chiefs, Prophets, Healers and poets among others. The collection according to Google Kenya took about two years to research and compile. Culture and Heritage CS Amina Mohamed said the stories as well as 55 virtual museums are currently accessible online. She added the project was key to attract millennials to learn about their heritage. “The project is rooted in history thriving in the present through tech narration,” she said. Amina added all museums in Kenya are now open provided they adhere to the rules and guidelines to prevent the spread of Covid-19.  