Police in Homa Bay, in partnership with stakeholders, have established a Child Protection Unit (CPU) to safeguard the lives and rights of children who suffer sexual assaults and other forms of abuse. It will be used to accommodate abused minors for a few days before they are moved to a child rescue centre. This will cushion them from being compromised or intimidated by suspects, which interferes with prosecution, said former Nyanza regional police commander Noah Mwivanda. “It is risky for a child who has been abused to stay at home because the suspects will manoeuvre ways to compromise them,” Mwivanda said. The law provides for between 20 years and lifetime imprisonment upon conviction, depending on the age of the minor. Perpetrators avoid this when they negotiate with the family. The CPU was established in a newly constructed building at Homa Bay police station. It was opened in early July by Mwivanda together with Homa Bay county police commander Esther Seroney and her Kisii counterpart Jebel Munene. Trained police officers are already assigned to handle the survivors to ensure legal action is taken against perpetrators. “The purpose of accommodating the children is to protect their lives and gather evidence. The evidence will seal loopholes through which perpetrators may escape legal action when the case is filed in court,” Mwivanda said. AWARENESS CAMPAIGN Seroney said they have begun an awareness campaign against defilement and other of forms of gender-based violence in Homa Bay. The police boss urged residents not to hesitate to report cases of child molestation. She said they have allowed local administrators to arrest people who engage in sexual assault and child molestation. The CPU, she added, will help a lot in separating victims from perpetrators in the community so they produce evidence independently. “The law allows the police to arrest and charge parents who collude with sexual offence suspects to thwart justice,” Seroney said. An organisation called Champion for Peace Movement donated a computer to the Homa Bay Child Protection Unit for digitising records. The organisation director Elli Onyango also handed over other personal effects to Seroney. “Loss of documents on a child who has been abused can deter them from getting justice," Onyango said. “The computer will help police keep records digitally to enhance accessibility when need arises.” The NGO boss said many parents and guardians are being compromised by perpetrators. This leads to the collapse of many cases in courts. “This has deterred police from obtaining water-tight evidence for prosecuting the suspects,” Onyango added. He said his organisation had also equipped the CPU with sanitary towels, soap, lotions and food. “We also have a budget for buying food at Sh50,000 per month for children who are protected in this child protection unit. The items are meant to help them when they are here so as to win the war against defilement and other forms of child abuse.” Onyango urged parents and guardians to co-operate with police should their children get molested to enable the minors get justice. ‘ARREST PARENTS’ Women legislators in the county want parents who cut deals with perpetrators arrested. Gladys Wanga (woman representative), Millie Odhiambo (Suba North), Lillian Gogo (Rangwe) and Eve Obara (Kabondo Kasipul) spoke at an event to donate sanitary pads. The MPs said cases of child abuse have thrived in Homa Bay because parents and some victims get compromised. Homa Bay's teen pregnancy rate stands at 33 per cent after Narok with 40 per cent nationally. Wanga said the trend is alarming. She wants all stakeholders to work together to fight it. She urged well-wishers to support girls so they don’t engage in premature sex due to poverty. “My office has been engaging in talks with the Homa Bay government and county provincial administration on strategies to tackle the crime,” Wanga says. Millie urged girls to report cases of child abuse immediately they happen. The Suba North MP called for stern action against sex pests in the society. “It’s high time we collectively fought this crime, which ruins the future of our girls,” Millie said. Gogo asks parents to closely monitor their children to prevent them from engaging in immoral activities. “My constituency office allocates funds for buying girls sanitary towels and other personal effects to help them in schools,” she said. Edited by T Jalio