Cane farmers in Western have condemned the rejection of the Sugar Regulations 2020 by governors and senators. The farmers said the leaders are enemies of progress and they will vote them out in 2022. They said the regulations announced by Agriculture CS Peter Munya will reform the sector and improve cane production to benefit farmers. On Friday, the governors and senators rejected agriculture reforms with the lawmakers summoning Munya to respond to queries raised. The leaders warned Munya against initiating new regulations in the sector without involving county governments. They said the Ministry of Agriculture had developed a legislative and regulatory framework for the sector without involving counties. The Council of Governors' committee on agriculture and that of the Senate held a consultative meeting to deliberate on issues affecting the sector in Mombasa on Friday. But Kenya National Alliance of Sugarcane Farmers Organisations secretary-general Michael Arum said it was unfortunate that the leaders had called for the rejection of reforms. Among other provisions, the regulations ban the importation of sugar and sugar cane products. Arum stated that the CoG and senators did not represent the interests of farmers. “As farmers, we overwhelmingly welcome the new Sugar Regulations 2020 that advocate for speedy payment of farmers by millers. We will rally our members to send them home,” he said. Speaking in Kisumu during a stakeholders meeting, the farmers wondered why the leaders would want to turn their back on the growers who they said will immensely benefit from the new regulations. Other farmers who converged in Bungoma said that they will fully support the Agriculture CS who gazetted the new regulations. Tongaren farmer David Obala wondered why the parliamentary leadership would oppose reforms in the troubled sector that had previously witnessed farmers suffer huge losses due to poor prices as a result of illegally imported sugar from outside the Comesa region. The 2020 Sugar Regulations will enable out-growers to negotiate better terms of supply of sugarcane to millers and coordinate the production, harvesting and transport of the crop. The government is to provide financial credit or arrange for financing of its growers for the production of their sugar cane, land clearance and preparation and planting. Munya has defended the government-sponsored bills and policies contained in the Sugar Regulations Bill, 2020, saying they are part of ongoing reforms aimed at increasing farmers’ incomes.  Edited by Henry Makori