Hoteliers in Kisii are assured of good business at the weekend and into early next week as bookings have skyrocketed ahead of Mashujaa Day celebrations next Tuesday. Several hotels are fully booked ahead of the national holiday fete to be held at the Gusii Stadium. The Star visited several hotels and found final touches being done on some minor renovations, including paint jobs. Mwalimu International hotel director Wilfred Bosire and DANS hotel CEO Elkanah Onyando said their facilities have enough beds for guests. Bosire said guests will sample local cuisine, including local chicken and vegetables, at affordable prices. He assured visitors of an environment conducive to their stay. He said that despite the losses the hotel industry has made as a result of the outbreak of Covid-19 in March, they did not increase their rates. “We are happy that our county was chosen to hold this year’s Mashujaa Day.  I want to assure all our visitors who have booked rooms in our hotel that we are ready to host them and provide them with proper services,” Bosire said. The director warned against brokers booking hotels cheaply to sell to guests at exorbitant prices, adding that they have put all the information on their website. Bosire, who is also the Kisii County Contractors Association chair, praised ongoing works in giving the town and its environs a facelift. He noted that contractors who were awarded tenders to repair roads demonstrated that they can give taxpayers value for their money. “I am happy that colleagues who were given work to do roads in Kisii Town and its environs have done their best. Our county is now ready to host the event,” Bosire told the Star in his office. He added that Governor James Ongwae’s administration has done all it can to ensure the celebration is a success. Bosire noted that street lighting has allowed traders to conduct their businesses in a friendly environment. “The promise by Governor James Ongwae that Kisii town will be a 24-hour economy has become a reality,” he said. He urged those who have not registered with the association to sign up so they can benefit from tenders floated by the national and county governments. Bosire expressed optimism that Ongwae will clear bills due to contractors as the National Treasury has released the over Sh7 billion to the county.