ODM leader Raila Odinga on Monday denied he has declared interest in the 2022 presidential race. The African Union Infrastructure envoy said at no point had he made such a declaration. This was in reference to reports in a local daily. Raila said his focus was on delivering the Building Bridges Initiative, whose report was officially unveiled at the Bomas of Kenya on Monday. The ODM leader welcomed the BBI outcome as a gift he and President Uhuru Kenyatta would want to bequeath Kenya’s future generations. He said there was a need to give the Jubilee administration time to deliver its agenda to Kenyans before sending the country into a campaign mode. He said he would be uncomfortable with a situation where the BBI campaigns would result in a ‘No’ and ‘Yes’ camps. “We want an uncontested referendum. We don’t want No and Yes sides. Everyone has spoken here and we have heard and Kenyans will decide who will be the leader in 2022.” The opposition leader took a swipe at Deputy President William Ruto for his premature 2022 campaigns, saying his priority should be to help President Kenyatta achieve the Big Four agenda. “Jubilee government has its Big Four agenda. Let them finish it first. Don’t tell us how you (DP) will do things in 2022. You have yours to deal with now,” Raila said to the cheers of the thousands gathered at the Bomas of Kenya for the BBI report launch. In his usual figurative speech, the ODM leader likened the DP to a wife who abandons her marriage just because they have a mentally-ill child. “They (Uhuru and Ruto) are a pair,” Raila said, noting that the BBI process is part of the efforts to improve the 2010 Constitution. He said the supreme law was passed on the understanding that it was ‘a ceasefire Constitution’ to be made better with time. Raila revisited his March 2018 handshake with President Kenyatta as he put a strong case for BBI, saying it provided an enabling environment for the conversation. “Our Constitution has been hailed as the most democratic but we still have a problem as a people. That is why we agreed that it was time to look at issues ailing the country. “That was the essence of the conversation we had. After we talked, we put the team together and tasked it to come up with this proposal,” he said and countered the notion that the document was not owned by Kenyans citing the BBI validation rallies held in Kisii, Kakamega, Mombasa, Kitui, Narok, Garissa and Meru. He reiterated: “This document is a result of deep consultations with the people of Kenya. We agreed that it must be inclusive and one that caters to everyone’s needs.” Quoting the Bible and the Quran, Raila said it was time Kenyans reasoned together on the need to change the supreme law. “When we talked, we said we want to bequeath a better society for our nation. Let us talk to each other. The problem in our country must be solved by the people themselves.” And in an apparent jibe at the Hustler narrative, Raila said BBI would give Kenyans an opportunity to create wealth. “The plenty to be found within our borders as said in the National Anthem will not drop like manna from heaven but through the sweat of our people whom we want to empower through the BBI.” The ODM chief said he and President Kenyatta envisioned a country where every child has an equal opportunity to realise his or her potential. “We want a situation where no Kenyan will sleep without food. We want a case where one would get treatment in the hospital whether they have money or not…that is why we have proposed the ‘utu’ slogan,” he said.  - mwaniki fm