The award of the multi-billion Koru-Soin dam tender will be completed next week, Kisumu county commissioner Josephine Ouko has said. Ouko, who chairs the implementation team, said the Sh32 billion project tender will be awarded on Monday. The implementation of the multipurpose dam funded by the national government through the National Water Harvesting and Storage Authority will start immediately. “We will start the implementation immediately after the contractor comes on the site. There will be no further delay because we have waited for the project since 1958,” Ouko said. The project implementation team, she said, will start its first engagement next week to mobilise and start the implementation works upon the contractor’s arrival at the site. The project is expected to take between two to threes to be complete. The approximate cost for the dam and water supply components is Sh30 billion, while land compensation costs Sh2 billion. Already, the government has committed Sh25 billion for the project. Authority’s chairman Erick Okeyo said they requested Ouko to chair the implementation team of the multi-purpose dam. “The multi-purpose dam is a national government project hence the Authority found it fit to request the Commissioner to drive the implementation team,” Okeyo said. He spoke during the stakeholders' meeting in Kisumu on Thursday. Okeyo said it has met various stakeholders that include Nema and the National Administration, Water resource Management Authority. Others are the National Land Commission and the Lake Victoria South Waterworks Development Agency. The team will give a roadmap ahead of the groundbreaking that will be announced soon. The chairman said the implementation team will inform the authority accordingly ahead of the groundbreaking ceremony. Okeyo said Sh2 billion has been allocated to NLC to compensate landowners. A total of 360 parcels will be acquired for the project. He said 230 of the parcels will be affected in Kisumu county and 130 in Kericho. The proposed Soin-Koru Dam is a Vision 2030 flagship project located in Kisumu and Kericho counties along River Nyando. River Nyando is one of the seven major rivers within the Lake Victoria Basin originating from the upper highland areas and flows into Lake Victoria. The Soin-Koru Dam was started in 1982 by the Italian government and taken over by the NWCPC in 2009. The project’s components include the Rockfill dam of 54 meters height, a storage capacity of 93.7MM cubic, water treatment works of 71.279 meters cubic per day. Others include trunk distribution pipelines of diameters 1200-150 millimeters and of the total length of 122.54 kilometers as well as 12 number storage tanks of the total capacity of 23.400 meters. One of the major benefits of the project will be to control the perennial floods caused by River Nyando over-topping its banks thereby affecting residents in Kisumu county, especially in Nyando, Muhoroni, and Nyakach constituencies. Flooding in lower reaches of Kano plains displaces more than 5,000 people yearly, costing about Sh50 million due to damages and further Sh30 million for rehabilitation measures. Another benefit is the water supply for domestic, commercial (irrigation), and institutional use as all the residents near the dam site and downstream of the dam site will be served with water to supplement the existing facilities. Kisumu city and the emerging towns of Ahero, Chemelil, Miwani, Muhoroni, Koru, Awasi, Koitaburot, Katito, Masogo, and Ombeyi will be the major beneficiaries. The other benefits include increased area under irrigation schemes in and around Ahero and West Kano Irrigation schemes from 1,800 hectares to 5,370 and also power generation of approximately 2.5 megawatts. This will be used to pump water to higher areas while excess power sold to Kenya Power as this will translate to cheaper water and additional income for the two counties. Edited by EKibii 