@alalmaurice Ms Black Wisconsin from the US is empowering girls and widows in Kisumu county. Keerah Carter, 28, was selected Mss Wisconsin in the Mr, Mrs, Ms Black America Pageant, paving the way for her to run for Ms Black America in 2021. Crowned Ms BlacK Wisconsin in September, Keerah visited the Widows Training Centre, a project funded by her family and the Andre Patrice Carter Foundation in Ngere Kagoro village, Muhoroni subcounty. Keerah presided over tree planting at the centre. She said girls and widows face many problems and concerted efforts are required to enable them to be self-reliant and give them skills to increase their income. The centre aims to help widows, often neglected and ostracised by their families. They learn life skills, entrepreneurship, handicrafts, tailoring, hair dressing and other skills. Keerah said she will focus on changing the lives of vulnerable groups, a goal she will emphasise in her quest to become Miss Black America. “I am preparing for next year’s beauty pageant,” she said. Keerah urged young girls to remain steadfast in their studies and pursue their dreams. “With God everything is possible. You just have to be focused and committed to your objectives. Be dedicated and you will achieve whatever you desire,” she said. The widows thanked Keerah who told them their children will be able to realise their dreams. Under the Tintoler Community-Based Organisation, widows' chairwoman Jane Ayoo said they face many problems. Ayoo thanked the foundation for the training. “Amongst us, there are those who became widows at a younger age. We thank Andre Carter for the support. She’s a godsend,” she said. “She has shown us how to fish for ourselves and now it is a challenge to us to be hardworking and innovative.” Deputy chairperson Adhiambo Abuto said poverty has made life difficult for  widows, orphans and people living with disabilities. She said they can improve their lives if they work together and get support from the well-wishers, the county and national governments. “These widows need serious support. Some of them have been abandoned by relatives, some have no children to take care of them,” Abuto said. (Edited by V. Graham)