Leadership is about examples. Wrong examples lead to the wrong moves by everyone. Nobody likes it when you ask him or her to do something that you cannot even do yourself. While in France last week, President Uhuru Kenyatta once again made it clear what his legacy was about. He pointed out that he wants to see a united, cohesive and prosperous country even before he can discuss who or who not to support in the next election. The President made it clear that he had a job given to him by Kenyans and that his government’s agenda was to ensure that it is fulfilled. He mentioned that, with two years to the election, he was focused on unity and economical empowerment for Kenyans. In France, the President witnessed the signing of three bilateral agreements with the first being the public private partnership deal for the construction of the Nairobi-Nakuru-Mau Summit highway. The second was the development of the Nairobi CBD to JKIA commuter railway and the third being the 400KV Menengai-Rongai electricity transmission line. During the Kenya-France business forum, the President pitched Kenya as a key investment destination outlining some of the opportunities that exist in the country for French firms. While the President leads from the front to ensure that the agenda of his government is achieved, there are those who are derailing these plans by engaging in unnecessary politics at this time. With no interest in another term or extending his stay in office, the President understands that early campaigns are distractive. Those in Jubilee should understand where the President is coming from. Putting the country into a campaign mode will only derail the agenda of ensuring that there are no divisive elections. People must focus on the agenda that the President laid down and ensure that all Kenyans are empowered. In the midst of a pandemic, which seems to be getting under control, it is unimaginable that politicians are focused on an election that is two years away. This should be the time that politicians join hands to help the country recover from the economic slowdown caused by the pandemic. Some politicians have made it their business to remind Kenyans of 2022 instead of talking about the things that matter. For instance, why are they not talking about the infrastructure needed to reopen schools? For them, political competition is more important than the education of millions of Kenyans who need it the most. Political talk is more important to them than the almost two million Kenyans, mostly young people, who lost their jobs during the pandemic. It is sickening that political ambition can blind some people to the daily struggles of those whose votes they seek. It is worse still that they pull the same jobless Kenyans to rallies to show that they have a larger following than their opponents. Kenyans must be weary of these kinds of leaders and focus on supporting those looking after their interests. All Kenyans must demand that their leaders at all level focus on delivery of services and do the job that they were elected to do. This is why we must continuously listen to the President as he reminds us of his agenda and get behind him. It is our duty in our individual capacity to ensure that we support him where we can. For now, we must stay focused on the agenda that the President holds dear—unity and prosperity for all Kenyans. All leaders must follow the President’s example and shun politics and focus on  service delivery.