Deputy President William Ruto has called for a national consensus on the BBI report so that it does not divide the country on a winner-loser basis. The DP on Wednesday said BBI should be devoid of the "reggae" bravado, intimidation or threats that will divide Kenyans. He spoke at Huruma grounds in Eldoret during the funeral of Huruma MCA Peter  Chomba who died of Covid-19. The DP said consensus must not only be built among leaders, but the millions of Kenyans whom he said are 'hustlers'. "The BBI must be free of the reggae bravado, it must not be divisive to create winners and losers," Ruto said. “While looking for inclusivity as leaders, we must equally look for millions of Kenyans excluded because of their social and economic status." Ruto defended his so called 'wheelbarrow politics', arguing it was a serious matter for millions of Kenyans. "If you find a nation where wheelbarrow becomes a national conversation, we should know that there is a problem, which should be sorted out," Ruto said. “It is hypocrisy for some leaders to oppose the empowerment of boda boda and wheelbarrow people yet they are the same ones who give handouts to youths to elect them during general elections." He insisted that although some politicians criticised him for giving out wheelbarrows, it was tool with the potential to change the lives of millions of poor Kenyans. "The wheelbarrow means two different things to two different sets of people because to others it means nothing, while to millions it's a tool that can transform lives," Ruto said. The DP said those opposing his wheelbarrow politics should stop unnecessary anger and be ready to engage in a genuine conversation on the problems poor Kenyans face. "While we are looking for consensus among leaders, we should also look to include the millions who have no opportunity to have a meal or do business," Ruto said. He said BBI should not be a conversation about leaders. "It must also be about those who have been excluded for all leaders must ensure the debate on the BBI will be all inclusive and not about leaders and how they will benefit," Ruto said. Ruto said politics of hatred and ethnicity should not to be accepted. The DP said residents of Uasin Gishu must remain united and be an example to other Kenyans because of the many tribes in the region. Ruto eulogised Chomba as a unique leader with principles. "He said what he meant and meant what he said. For Chomba to respect you then you had to earn that respect," he said. The DP said Chomba stood ground in all that he believed in at all costs. Ruto said Chomba strongly supported unity between communities in the region.