The turnaround of textiles maker Rivatex East Africa stands out as the most successful project of the Jubilee administration in the North Rift. The firm is still focusing on expansion and modernisation of its equipment to create more jobs and a bigger market for cotton farmers. “We are working closely with our farmers and counties around the country so  we have adequate raw materials," said CEO Thomas Kipkurgat, who has spearheaded revival of the Eldorest-based firm. President Uhuru Kenyatta opened a new production unit at Rivatex two years ago and he has been urging Kenyans to buy its products to support local manufacturers. The cotton mill roared back to life after the Treasury and the Indian government equally injected more than Sh3.5 billion each into buying modern equipment. The giant factory collapsed 20 years ago due to mismanagement and corruption. It was then fully state-owned. Six years ago it was acquired by Moi University. Rivatex employs 800 people and aims to have 3,000 workers when expansion is completed. “We are on track with all the modernisation and the company is contributing to the growth of the economy in the North Rift and the entire country,” Kipkurgat said. He said the factory is expected to increase its intake of cotton from 10,000 bales per day to 100,000 bales. By then it will be producing 40,000 metres of textiles per day compared to the current 5,000 metres. The company has signed contracts with farmers and ginneries to boost production. About 40,000 cotton growers in 22 counties are working with the company. The modernisation has helped to enhance efficiency and quality, Kipkurgat said. Rivatex has won contracts to produce materials for police uniforms and government agencies like Kenya Power, the Geothermal Development Company and hospitals, as well as gowns for public and private universities. It is a major producer of face masks to prevent the spread of the coronavirus.The company is also eyeing the Agoa (African Growth and Opportunity Act) market through the Export Processing Zone, as well as regional markets. Manufacturing is one of the four pillars of President Kenyatta's Big Four agenda and the government intends to invest more in the Eldoret-based firm. National leaders are impressed by Rivatex's success and ANC leader Mudavadi plans to visit next week. “My focus as a leader and also as ANC head has been on our economy because  that is the solution to most of our problems. We are happy with the revival of Rivatex and we need to focus more on such projects to create jobs for our people," Mudavadi said. (Edited by V. Graham)