@robertomollo3 More than 4,000 fish maw traders in Nyanza region have protested against the setting up of two Chinese firms for the commodity in Homa Bay and Mbita towns. The company in Mbita has started operating while the one in Homa Bay will soon be opened. The traders said that the companies will bring unfair competition and render them jobless. They usually buy the maws from fishmongers and fishermen on the beaches and resell them to processing companies in Kisumu and Nairobi. Fish maws are used to manufacture surgical suture and oil. The traders say the firms are putting the survival of the business at risk because the Chinese buy the maws directly from producers at normal prices. Lake Region Fish Maws Traders Association chair Joseph Abungu said they will not get any profit if the company buys fish maws at the same price as them. “What is clear is that Chinese companies are eliminating us from the business. How are we going to survive?” Abungu told journalists in Homa Bay on Monday. Janet Atieno and William Ochwach said the companies are going to encourage illegal fishing extraction of maws from fish in Lake Victoria. This will make boat owners incur unprecedented losses, he said. “Fishermen like selling fish maws more than handing over fish to boat owners. They keep the maws in their pockets for sale and cheat boat owners that they didn’t catch any fish,” Atieno said. The businesspersons who hail from Homa Bay, Migori and Siaya counties are now calling on the government to rescue them. “We depend on this business for livelihood. We appeal to the authorities to prevent the companies from operating here,” Ochwach said. Homa Bay county commissioner Moses Lilan promised to address the issue. Lilan said his office will not allow the Chinese companies to render thousands of people jobless. “We are going to hold a meeting with the security officials and other stakeholders this week to solve the issue. We must consider the interests of the majority in the matter,” Lilan said. 