Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha has been ordered to convene a meeting with the Teachers Service Commission and other stakeholders on the reopening of schools. High Court judge James Makau said the meeting should be held today at Jogoo House. The parties are expected to reach a settlement and submit a report to the court on October 14. "The CS Education or his representative to invite the parties in the petition and stakeholders within the shortest time possible to constitute or reach settlement on the issues of reopening the school, on what conditions and when and report to this court on or by October 14.” The order was given after Joseph Aura moved to court on claims that the indefinite closure of schools was affecting children and that the government has failed to put in place measures to address the issue. Aura also wanted the CS compelled to reopen all schools for third term. The schools were closed after the first positive case of Covi-19 was reported in March. “I have lodged these proceedings as a parent on behalf of my children and on behalf of millions of voiceless children enrolled similarly in learning institutions across the country,” Aura said. The father of three says in-person learning is best for the education of children and not virtual or any other learning method. He wanted the court to order Magoha reopen all schools from September. Further,  Health CS Mutahi Kagwe should be compelled to reopen all play areas and recreational centres for children. “The oppressive psychological and mental torture inflicted on the school-going children because of the open-ended closure of schools effected by the ministry from March till now has gravely injured them,” Aura says in court documents through lawyer Harrison Kinyanjui. He argues that many countries with high numbers of Covid-19 cases have reopened schools and Kenya should follow suit. He cited France, Japan, Nigeria, Tanzania, Senegal, the Gambia, Namibia, Ghana as among those countries. On Tuesday, Magoha instructed Grade 4, Standard 8 and Form 4 learners to report to school on Monday next week.  - mwaniki fm