Coast ODM youth league has launched an aggressive campaign against a plan by Tangatanga allied MPs to form a coastal-based political party. The youth, in a declaration dubbed Dabaso Two, said the region is an ODM stronghold and vowed to protect it from selfish individuals who are out to divide residents. They made the declaration after meeting delegates from all over the region at Arabuko Sokoke Jamii Villas in Kilifi North. They took issue with Tangatanga politicians, warning them that they will not succeed on their mission to divide and conquer the region. "We wish to declare that today, October 3, 2020, we have Dabaso Declaration 2 by saying ODM is an entrenched Coastal party that will take the people to prosperity and has stood the test of time in fighting for their rights," said a statement by the league. The first Debaso declaration was in 2013. "We wish to let MPs Aisha Jumwa and Owen Baya aware that we know who they have turned to be and what they’re planning to do, now that they have gone berserk .. Waheshimiwa don’t dare us! We are the reason you fly to and from Kilifi to Nairobi. We will soon cut short those safaris," the statement added. Besides countering the idea of forming a new political party which is fronted by MPs, among them Kilifi North's Owen Baya and Malindi's Aisha Jumwa, the league said it will take charge of the three by-elections in the region. Key among them is the Msambweni parliamentary contest that follows the death of lawmaker Suleiman Dori. The other two are county assembly by-elections in Wundanyi and Dabaso wards in Taita Taveta and Kilifi respectively. All the polls are set for December 15. The league is currently going around the six counties as it intensifies efforts to ring-fence the region against insurgence by DP William Ruto. It is out to ensure the Orange party wins all the three contents. They told party leader Raila Odinga and his deputy Ali Hassan Joho to sit pretty as they are equal to the task and committed to delivering victory in the three by-elections to prove their strength. Youth league county chairpersons present included Senior Samir Nyundo (Kilifi), Patricia Mwashigadi (Taita Taveta), Moses Aran (Mombasa), Mohamed Dabaso (Tana River) and Amir Matano (Kwale). Also present were nominated and elected MCAs. They urged the youth to take leadership roles and be active in the party. Their tactical move is not only meant to bolster ODM's brigade in the region but also steer its agenda. A press statement read by Mwashigadi said they have resolved to actively engage in the by-elections and mobilise support for the party's candidates. The league said they are satisfied with the ODM National Elections Board for conducting free and transparent nominations in Msambweni. Mwashidadi said they would hit the ground running, undertake massive recruitment of members, promote publicity at the grassroots and work to achieve the party's agenda of being a social democracy and development outfit. Using the slogan 'ODM  haiwi bila sisi (ODM is incomplete without us)', the youth said they are determined to strengthen the party and ensure the region overwhelmingly supports it. Nyundo said those MPs who are disloyal to the party should know that their days are numbered. They vowed to teach them a lesson during the upcoming by-elections. "We have decided to walk together and shall not give way to anyone," he said. Aran said the rebel MPs who have gone against ODM and abandoned the youth to support Tangatanga should never come back. He said Raila should know that the youth love him so much and those who insult him only to run back at the last minute must not be welcomed again. "We have information that they went to Tangatanga to make money and use it in the by-elections in Dabaso. Here we have a king you won't penetrate, they are planning to go to Taita Taveta but we have our deputy party leader Joho and [Kilifi Governor Amason] Kingi, you won't make it," Aran said. Aran said residents will gladly receive handouts from Tangatanga but will not vote for their candidates. They said Tangatanga will not penetrate the region as ODM is strong and being safeguarded by the youth themselves.