Up to 17 first-term governors are in for a rude shock as they will be forced to part ways with their deputies if the Building Bridges Initiative report gets the nod of Kenyans. The affected governors are those with deputies of the same gender, which is disallowed by the report presented to President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga in Kisii on Wednesday. The Steering Committee on the Implementation of the Building Bridges to a United Kenya task force report recommends that the running mate of every candidate for the position of the governor be of the opposite gender. The report proposes amendments to Article 200 of the Constitution to compel a mixed-gender ticket for the county’s top seat. “In making the nomination under clause (5), a candidate for election as a county governor shall consider a person of the opposite gender,” the report recommends. Currently, there is no law compelling governors to choose the opposite gender as their running mates. The casualties of the recommendation are Dhadho Gaddae Godhana (Tana River), Anyang’ Nyong’o (Kisumu), Fahim Twaha (Lamu), Mohammed  Kuti (Isiolo), Muthomi Njuki (Tharaka Nithi), Ali Korane (Garissa), Mohamed Mohamud Ali (Marsabit), Hillary Barchok (Bomet), Kiraitui Murungi (Meru) and Ndiritu Muriithi (Laikipia). The others are Joseph ole Lenku (Kajiado), John Lonyangapuo (West Pokot), Lee Kinyanjui (Nakuru), Stanley Kiptis (Baringo), Mohamed Abdi Mohamud (Wajir), Wycliffe Wangamati (Bungoma), and Wilber Ottichilo (Vihiga). They all have male deputies and will be forced to pick women running mates in 2022 to comply if the BBI report is enacted. This means they will have to disengage their current deputies and have fresh running mates in 2022 if they defend their seats. The proposed legislation seeks to increase the number of women in county leadership. This has not been the case since the 2010 Constitution came into force. In most cases, the top county seats were dominated by men as women voices were unheard of in the highest decision-making organs of the devolved units. In the 2017 general elections, only three women were elected governors. The number is down to two after the death of Joyce Laboso (Bomet). Only Anne Waiguru (Kirinyaga) and Charity Ngilu (Kitui) remain as women governors.  - mwaniki fm