Members of an investment company associated with the defunct Nairobi City Council want their new officials to help them acquire title deeds. Waswa Investment Company Limited investors asked their new officials to hasten deeds processing for their approximated 300 hectares at Joska in Mavoko, Machakos county. The members comprising retired and serving employees of the Nairobi City county government said they hadn’t received their titles following a ten-year court battle over the company leadership. “The company was established by county council members through cheque-off system. After sometime it changed from a society to an investment company,” shareholder Sammy Maina said. They addressed the press during an annual general meeting at Destiny Park in Kahawa Wendani estate, Kiambu, on Friday. The members conducted fresh elections for the company directors as ordered by Justice David Majanja of the High Court in Nairobi following leadership wrangles. James Mwangi Ng’ang’a, Mary Kimani Mbugua and David Mogendi Michoti who operated a parallel group had in 2011 moved to court challenging the leadership of Sammy Maina, James Nyakoe and Vincent Ogilo. Ng’ang’a, Mbugua and Michoti acted as the company’s chairman, treasurer and secretary. On the other side, Maina, Nyakoe and Ogilo acted as the secretary, treasurer and chairman. After ten years of court battles on the company’s leadership, Justice Majanja on September 9 ordered that fresh elections be conducted on October 2. Ng’ang’a, Mbugua and Michoti made a public announcement about company elections in a local daily with Destiny Park, Kahawa Wendani, as the venue. “Notice to all shareholders Waswa Investment Company Limited…that pursuant to orders issued by Hon Justice David Majanja on the 9th September this year in HC. CC NO. 462 of 2011 ordering the company directors namely James Mwangi Ng’ang’a, Mary Kimani Mbugua and David Mogendi Michoti to convene AGM on 2nd October, 2020. Notice is hereby given that the AGM of Waswa Investment Company Limited will be held at Destiny Park Kahawa Wendani on Friday, October 2020 at 9.00am,” the notice read. Ogilo’s team won the elections that were conducted through the ‘mlolongo’ system along the road outside the Destiny Park building. Peter Maina, on behalf of Ng’ang’a’s team, conceded defeat promising that they will work with the elected directors. “We came to participate in the election following a court order to elect new officials. I love Mwangi but unfortunately we were only seven who voted for his team. We will not go to court again, have accepted Ogilo’s office to reign. Let’s build our land. Ogilo, I am asking you to help us get our title deeds,” Maina said. Efforts by the Star to reach Ng’ang’a  for a comment on the elections were futile since he didn’t pick phone calls. The elections were observed by Kahawa Sukari OCS Kagendo Gitonga. Officers from her station and those from Kahawa Wendani police post provided security during the elections. Ogilo promised all legitimate members and shareholders title deeds. “From today all members will get their title deeds. Everybody to get what rightfully belongs to him during my tenure,” Ogilo said. Edited by Henry Makori