An office physical location verification exercise is being undertaken for two provisionally registered political parties as part of legal requirement for full registration. The Office of Registrar of Political Parties (ORPP) has dispersed teams across the country to inspect and verify location and addresses of their of head office and in county offices, an exercise taking place from 12th to 16th October, 2020. The two parties are National Reconstruction Alliance (NRA) and Umoja Summit Party. Led by the Registrar of Political Parties, Ann Nderitu, the nine teams will cluster counties in the Coast, Lower Eastern, Upper Eastern, Western, South Nyanza, Rift Valley, Central, Nakuru and the Nairobi metropolis regions. The exercise seeks the extent to which the two have complied with all the parameters for full registration as spelt out under section 7 of the Political Parties, Act 2011. Nderitu underscored the importance of thoroughness to the teams conducting the exercise as one of the fair assessment that ORPP is committed to of all political parties undergoing registration.” This is part of our resolve as an Office to ensure political parties have necessary institutional structures and governing organs as required by law,” Nderitu underscored. Some the conditions for full registration include; the party to have recruited not less than 1,000 registered voters as members in at least 24 counties; representation of ethnic gender and special interest groups among its members and in the governing body; demonstration that members of the governing body meet the requirements of Chapter 6 of the Constitution as well as meet the conditions under the political parties code of conduct. The parties are also required to have submitted the required records and particulars to the Registrar of Political parties in the prescribed format. The parties are also required to provide documentary evidence of institutional policies and manuals essential in running the day to day affairs of the parties. Out of the verification exercise, a consolidated status report is developed, out of which, the Registrar determines whether or not the parties under scrutiny meet the stipulated legal threshold for full certification. Those that qualify are issued with certificate of full registration by the Registrar within 30 days of meeting the set out criteria. The process of full registration is preceded by provisional registration which requires parties to have met set out criteria of name and symbol, ideological identity, duly executed minutes by the founders’ members, duly processed party constitution as well have signed an undertaking to be bound by political parties’ code of conduct. The interim registration lasts for 180 days upon provisional registration but subject to renewal. A party constitution sets outs elaborate rules in all aspects of the party, membership requirements, governance and management structure; financial and reporting structures; disciplinary processes; internal dispute resolutions mechanism; rules for mergers and coalitions among a host of other well delineated as specified in the second schedule of the Political Parties, Act. Currently, there are 71 full registered and 9 provisionally registered political parties. Upon full registration, a political party attains its corporate status hence is required to operate in full fidelity of law and fiduciary corporate responsibilities in line with principles of good governance.