Unicef says it will stockpile 520 million syringes by December to vaccinate people with the Covid-19 vaccine when it is ready. The UN agency — the world's largest single buyer of vaccines — said the syringes will be stored in its warehouses around the world. Some of them are expected to be sent to Kenya as the country is participating in a UN-supported vaccine access project. Unicef said it will ensure the syringes arrive in countries before the Covid-19 vaccines. It said by end of 2021, it expects to deliver over one billion syringes to support Covid-19 vaccination efforts. “Vaccinating the world against Covid-19 will be one of the largest mass undertakings in human history, and we will need to move as quickly as the vaccines can be produced,” said Henrietta Fore, Unicef executive director, in a statement. “In order to move fast later, we must move fast now. By the end of the year, we will already have over half a billion syringes pre-positioned where they can be deployed quickly and cost-effectively. That’s enough syringes to wrap around the world one and a half times.” Gavi, the vaccine alliance, said it will reimburse Unicef for the syringes and safety boxes, which shall then be used for the Covid-19 Vaccine Global Access Facility (Covax Facility), the access project that will send vaccines to Kenya and about 91 other developing countries. Kenya will pay about Sh200 per dose of the vaccine and an individual might need two injections, months apart, to guarantee immunity. Besides syringes, Unicef is also buying five million safety boxes so that used syringes and needles can be disposed of safely by personnel at health facilities. Injection equipment such as syringes and safety boxes have a shelf life of five years. Lead-time for such equipment is also long as these items are bulky and need to be transported by sea freight. Vaccines, which are heat-sensitive, are normally transported quicker by air freight. In addition to saving time, early purchase of syringes and safety boxes reduces pressure on the market and pre-empts potential early spikes in demand when vaccines become available. Unicef procures more than two billion doses of vaccines annually for routine immunisation and outbreak response on behalf of nearly 100 countries, including Kenya. Every year, it provides vaccines for almost half of the world’s children and procures and supplies around 600-800 million syringes for regular immunisation programmes. The cost is usually paid for by Gavi. “Over two decades, Gavi has helped an additional 822 million children from the world’s most vulnerable countries access critical, life-saving vaccines,” Gavi CEO Seth Berkley said. “This would not have been possible without our partnership with Unicef."  Edited by F'Orieny