The upcoming Affordable Art Show will be a welcome excursion, following months of curtailed movement and limited social events. Organised by the Kenya Museum Society, the show runs from October 30 to November 1 at the courtyard of the Nairobi National Museum. All art will be priced under Sh100,000, and in the past, they have featured pieces for as low as Sh5,000. Dubbed by the organisers as East Africa’s largest art show, this annual fair is only the second art event since the reopening of Nairobi Museum after a Covid-19 closure. Social distancing, masks and other protocols will be compulsory for visitors. In addition, the Friday night opening, when up to 50 per cent of art sales happen, is by registration only. Up to 80 contemporary Kenyan artists will be represented and over 120 pieces of art will be exhibited. In the past, there have been submissions from creatives in the greater East African region. Even with the pocket-friendly prices, renowned names in Kenya’s art scene are expected to feature. Patrick Kinuthia’s female portraits are usually snatched up on the first day. In more recent years, he has diversified into impressionist landscapes and market scenes. Geraldine Robarts’ intensely coloured artwork is constantly evolving, covering the gamut from nature and seascapes, to culture and abstract themes. Veteran painter Leonard Ngure’s is known for his scenes of busy markets and densely populated streets. Samuel Githui is an old hand at figurative art, demonstrating a keen observation of the human form and events happening around him. In recent years, his work has become more surreal. Jimmy Kitheka finds inspiration in street scenes and urban settings, often capturing night shots that have a whimsical or yesteryear feel. Shake Makelele’s paintings of traditional peoples and cultural experiences, drawn in abstract style with harmoniously composed colours, continue to delight. Born and raised in Kenya, Alexandra Spyratos’ bold wildlife paintings are often imbued with fluorescent paints, gold and silver flecks. Now based overseas, she still finds much scope for the imagination from her years of living in Kenya. The Affordable Art Show will also showcase lesser-known artists, making it an ideal place to spot upcoming talent. Virtual art events became the norm this year, but a number of recent live shows in Nairobi have demonstrated people’s desire for a real art experience, albeit wearing masks. 2020 has been a tough year for creatives as most avenues for marketing and selling art remained closed due to the coronavirus pandemic. “Previously this show has been significant for providing artists with opportunities for growth, sales and networking, so we felt it was important to go ahead with the 2020 event,” said Lydia Galavu, curator of contemporary art at the Nairobi Museum. Now in its 8th year, the art buyers have historically been resident expatriates and a handful of local art collectors. But the show has grown in popularity among Kenyans, with people looking to enhance their art knowledge and build their own collections of art.