Comedian Ben Maurice Onyango, popularly also known as Othuol Othuol, died a lonely death on Sunday, while receiving treatment at the Kenyatta National Hospital. Speaking to Word Is, his close friend 2Mbili said most of Othuol's friends neither visited him nor contributed anything for his medication. Less than five comedians visited him at the hospital, he said. "We needed Sh8,000 to hire an ambulance for him to be transferred to KNH, and so I sent a message in the official comedians' WhatsApp group, which has over 200 people, yet people could not raise that," he said. Othuol's health had been deteriorating since he went back to the hospital two weeks ago. "Othuol was very weak in his last days, he could not talk, eat or even do anything by himself. He had also lost his memory," 2Mbili said. What exactly was ailing Othuol? 2Mbili said many tests of his blood samples were done and reports said Othuol had lung and kidney problems, his throat had sores and he had a brain tumour, which is why he was losing his memory. Othuol had been in and out of hospital for some time, having been diagnosed with tuberculosis last year. He had sent out a distress message to his family, friends and fellow comedians before he was taken back to the hospital. "Hi, hope this finds you well. I want to thank you for the support you have offered me. Meanwhile, sijapona and I will be going back to Kenyatta Hospital for a 2nd MRI," it read. The first MRI scan indicated he had an abnormal infection in the brain. 2Mbili said efforts to support his treatment were in vain. "If you go through his conversations with his rich friends when he was at the hospital, most of them blue-ticked him. They are the same people who are typing RIP on social media with his finest photos," he said. If Othuol had survived, plans were underway to take him to rehab. "The last time we had a conversation with Churchill was to take him to rehab since he was fighting alcohol addiction," 2Mbili said. He said he also did not get good medication and there was a lot of negligence by the hospital he was at. "Othuol was in hospital but he was not attended to, despite having a band in his hand to indicate he was an important person in the society," he said. "The many times I visited him, there was no doctor attending to him." Othuol was 31 years old and was living alone in Kitengela.