Africa Under 20 walk race champion Dominic Ndigiti is targeting a podium finish when he makes his debut as a senior at the Kip Keino Classic at Nyayo Stadium on Saturday. “I’m excited about Saturday’s event. This is my first time to participate in the 20km race at the international level. It will also be my second time to participate in the 20km category but I still hope to finish on the podium,” said Ndigiti. Speaking to The Star at the Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital where he had gone for a Covid-19 test, a requirement for all participants in the World Athletics Continental Tour meet, Ndigiti added that he wants to improve on his personal best. Ndigiti has a personal best of 1:25:15 in 20km and 40:37 in 10kms. “I also want to use this event to market myself and get a manager. Once I am in a management, it will be easier for me to get exposure and international events,” added the 19 year old former student at Kiendege Secondary School in Nyamira County. He admitted that All African Games champion Samuel Gathimba and Simon Wachira will be favourites for gold. “I have raced with them during trials and Athletics Kenya weekend meetings. It will be a very competitive event but I promise to give them a run for their money,” said a determined Ndigiti. Ndigiti has been training at Manga Hills, Kiendege Secondary and Gusii Stadium in addition to making energy saving jikos. “Despite the Covid-19 situation, I have been training hard when I’m not making the jikos. Making the energy jikos has helped me survive during this difficult period. I thank God the numbers (positive cases) are going down and some sports events have commenced,” he noted. He said his ultimate goal is to represent Kenya at next year’s Tokyo Olympic Games. “Since I have been locked out of the World Under 20 championships scheduled for Nairobi next year due to age, my focus is on the Olympics,” added Ndigiti, who rose to fame during the World Under 18 championships in Nairobi in 2017 by winning a bronze medal.