The nine petitions relating to the dissolution of Parliament will be mentioned on November 23 before the five-judge bench appointed by Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu. On Wednesday, Justice James Makau said the bench led by Justice Lydia Achode was ready to sit. Makau said due to time constraints and the diary of all the judges, the only time all the judges will be available is on November 23. While mentioning the nine cases separately, Justice Makau said all the other matters raised by the parties will be handled by the five-judge bench when they sit next month. State counsel Emmanuel Bitta had asked the court to consolidate the matters, arguing that the cases raised the same issues and it would also enable them in filing their responses if they are heard together. LSK president Nelson Havi opposed the court consolidating the cases, saying it is only the bench appointed by Mwilu that can order consolidation. However, lawyer Ahmednasir Abdullahi acting for Parliament opposed the bid to send the files to the five judges, saying the judges cannot hear the case as their appointment was unconstitutional. Ahmednasir further said he had filed a case challenging the appointment of the judges and that the matter cannot be heard by the bench that he was opposing. Chief Justice Maraga who is the respondent in all the matters is represented by lawyer Ochieng Oduol. Justice Makau directed all the parties who want to be included in the matter to file their papers and appear before the bench for directions at the next mention date. He noted that even though some of the parties were concerned that the next date was far, that’s the only date that all the five judges could get in their diaries. Lawyer Elias Mutuma for Thirdway Alliance asked the court to allow them have an open court session on the next mention date. Mutuma argued that the virtual hearings are a big challenge to them, saying that the lawyers and the court are having a hard time hearing each other due to network issues. Bitta opposed the suggestion by Mutuma, arguing that it would be hard to observe the Covid-19 rules because, due to the nature of the cases, many parties including the media and the public will want to be in the open court. Some of the petitioners in the case include Parliament, Thirdway Alliance, Tom Ojienda, Adrian Kamotho and the Council of Governors. Edited by Henry Makori