Domestic violence is still on the rise in Nairobi's low-income areas, a report has revealed. The Survey report by Trends and Insights for Africa-TIFA shows that women are the most affected at 52 per cent followed by men at 37 per cent and children at 36 per cent. The survey was conducted between September 24 and October 2 in the slums of Huruma, Kibera, Mathare, Korogocho, Mukuru kwa Njenga and Kawangware where 555 respondents were interviewed. According to the report, physical, verbal and a combination of the two remain the three main categories of violence reported in these areas. A combination of verbal and physical violence among women leads with 52 per cent followed by physical violence at 25 per cent and verbal violence at 20 per cent. In men, 39 per cent of the respondents have suffered a combination of physical and verbal violence followed by verbal violence at 30 per cent and physical violence at 26 per cent. With regards to children, 46 per cent have suffered both physical and verbal violence, followed by physical violence at 28 per cent and verbal violence at 21 per cent. As compared with to the report released in Round Two (in June), a significantly larger proportion of respondents reported increases in domestic violence against all three categories of victims - women, men and children. This is despite two reductions in the duration of the night-curfew since it was first imposed in March(from 7 pm-4 am to 9 pm-5 am and most recently from 11 pm to 5 pm). This the report suggests that the length of the curfew (and thus the extended confinement of household members to their residences) itself does not account for the overall increase in such violence. "If that is so, it is perhaps the continuing economic strains of a still-crippled economy that accounts for most stress that finds such violent, if largely ‘private’ expression confined to the household," the report said. In April after the curfew was imposed, the government said it had witnessed a spike in domestic violence, gender-based violence and sexual offences during the Covid-19 period. Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi warned Kenyans against engaging in such vices and disputes during the pandemic. "As the Ministry of Health what we are really saying is that this is not the time to engage in disputes and to bend about in terms of domestic violence towards our partners," she said. "We want to remind everyone that the law has not been suspended and that it will catch up with those who mete violence on others during this period." Later president Uhuru Kenyatta ordered a probe into escalating cases. Uhuru directed the National Crime Research Centre to move swiftly and investigate cases of gender-based violence and teenage pregnancy. He said his administration was concerned about increasing tension within homes across the country. Uhuru said a result, cases of mental health had worsened, and instances of teenage pregnancy escalated. “I appeal to social institutions, including the religious institutions, to exercise civic responsibility to bring these unfortunate trends to an end,” he said. Uhuru said a family is a projection of the state and if the same family is under attack, the state is under attack. “If the family is weak, the country is weak. Therefore, to fortify our protection of the family as the foundation of the state, I direct and order that the National Crime Research Centre probe the escalating cases of gender-based violence, the worrying trend of cases where the girl child has been disempowered and the violation of children’s rights,” he said. Gender CS Margaret Kobia recently said the government needs more data on the need for shelters for victims of gender-based violence before allocating resources. She said the government is more focused on preventive measures, the reason why it has not been committing resources. "... can we work on preventive and protective measures until we have enough data that is pointing that we need shelters...," she said.