Controversy has rocked the hiring of technical college tutors, with allegations the underserving candidates may have got the jobs. Some of the applicants listed to have secured jobs did not attend interviews, documents show. A section of the shortlisted candidates allege they were shortchanged. A complaint whose author the Star will not reveal to protect them reads: “We participated in PSC interviews for recruitment of TVET trainers back in May, … a keen look at the list, you realize there are individuals successfully recruited without being shortlisted in any institution". The candidates have asked the government to intervene and quash the process. "Unfortunately for this to happen, some of us who participated in the interviews have been robbed an opportunity," the complaint reads. The complainant has further sought legal redress through activist Okiya Omtatah. The Star's review of the list found that more than 50 individuals given jobs were never shortlisted after the interview. In October, then TVET Education PS Kevit Desai revealed the government’s plan to hire 5,000 trainers to support the growing number of trainees in the institutions. The interviews to fill the openings were conducted in May by the Public Service Commission, with the process slowed by the outbreak of coronavirus. The recruitment was set to be done in two batches of 2,000 trainers, and another 3,000 recruited by the end of the year. "In the wake of Covid-19, the process was slowed and only happened in May," current TVET PS Julius Jwan told the Star last week. “I am told this is the third batch. There was batch one and two placed under one advert but the PSC was responsible for interviews and hiring,” Jwan said. He said that his office is looking into the matter and will be working with the PSC to establish any disparities. Jwan said the colleges were at risk of losing out on the funds allocated to hire the tutors in the arrangement as the 2019-20 financial year came to a lapse. “With the risk of losing out on the funds, the Education ministry rolled out the third and final phase of hiring the trainers,” Jwan said. He said the department will not spare anyone found to have interfered with the hiring process. 