 Kajiado Governor Joseph Lenku has criticised politicians conducting early campaigns, saying such meetings were being used to engage in divisive politics. He said leaders engaged in early campaigns should do so at their own risk. Lenku spoke during Mashujaa Day celebrations in Kajiado town. He said there was an attempt by certain politicians to put a wedge between his executive and the county assembly. “We know the people who are attempting to divide the county assembly. We had ended this problem, but the same people are at it again,” Lenku said without naming people. The governor said those campaigning against his administration should criticise him positively and within the limits of the law. So he said it is only positive criticism that can yield action to correct any wrongs. “Let us look at things positively. Please do not divide the people of this county. We need peace, and we need each other,” Lenku said. He told politicians and residents spreading hate and rumours meant to discredit the gains achieved by his administration to stop. The governor said such hate messages only serve to detract the county from the focus on development. “It has become fashionable to insult the governor who is the symbol of leadership for the people,” he said. He asked police to deal with those preaching hate against elected leaders. Kajiado West MP George Sunkuyia criticised the Teachers Service Commission, saying the agency's policy on youth employment was skewed against the Maa people. Sunkuiyia said qualified Kajiado youth are not given the opportunity by TSC. He said the employer instead hires teachers from other counties to serve in Kajiado. County assembly speaker Johnson Osoi asked leaders to work within the law to leave a positive legacy. County commissioner Joshua Nkanatha asked residents to continue adhering to Ministry of Health protocols to contain the spread of coronavirus. Nkanatha said the pandemic was not yet contained. He urged parents to provide masks to children who have resumed learning in schools. During the celebrations, Lenku conferred lifetime achievement and recognition awards to 20 heroes and heroines, a ritual he promised to perform annually.  Edited by P.O 