Facebook has undergone many changes since its in launched 2004, with new updates making it easier to use and modern to fit the generations that are coming up. This year, one of the changes that it has had is the ads limit per page. The ad limit on each individual page restricts the number of campaigns that run. By Facebook restricting volume, they will help advertisers’ keep costs down and performance up of the system’s machine learning and personalization options mean high volumes are not necessary. Machine learning, improved algorithms and options like dynamic ads make it possible for businesses to run fewer campaigns overall and restrictions on ads will make it easy for ads to be approved faster. Another update that Facebook is having is the roll out of the Business Suite. It is a single dashboard for your linked Facebook and Instagram accounts that allow you to post, message, advertise and view insights all in one place. It has been designed to make the social media management process easier at least for two platforms. On the business suite if you want to schedule posts that will go out to both your Facebook and Instagram followers at the same time, now you can. The combined insights feature is also useful for big-picture views on your performance for the two platforms, especially when comparing what works on each and what does not. Data Checkups is an update that is coming soon to Facebook. This is an annual workflow for developers and businesses on the platform that will allow them to review the permissions they have access to. They will also be asked to commit that their data use and API access comply with the terms of service and developer policies within 60 days. Improvements in Auto Inventory ads is another update. These auto inventory ads are designed specifically to be relevant for those interested in buying a car. They have now been expanded, allowing advertisers to send traffic to a mobile-optimized, on-platform shopping experience. They see dynamic Vehicle Detail Page on Facebook, which pulls information from the dealer’s auto catalog. This is where the users can research vehicles, look at additional inventory and connect with dealers directly through a lead form, phone call, or Messenger. It has expanded safety for In-Stream options. In-Stream has been a great opportunity for brands to have advertisements that user are rather forced to watch as they wait for content they chose to watch. One of the expanded safety is a topic exclusion that offers a granular exclusion tool that allows for the assessment of suitability at the content level. Publisher allows lists for in-stream auction is another expanded safety, which lets you name a specific list of individual publishers who would be willing to have your ad shown alongside.