Politics surrounding the botched ODM impeachment motion against Governor Okoth Obado marred Migori county Mashujaa Day celebrations in Sori town. Nyatike MP Tom Odege, who openly supported the process, faced accusations of stabbing Obado in the back. Odege and Obado did not attend the event but the lawmaker was represented by his aide, Steve Ogony. County assembly speaker Boaz Okoth took a swipe at Odege for pushing for the governor's removal from office. “Odege should be ashamed. It is us—Obado and me—who helped him to become a legislator, but each time he stands in public, he attacks us, saying the governor will end up in disarray (sic),” speaker Okoth said. Okoth and Odege hail from the same area in North Kadem ward. Together with Obado, they formed a political alliance during the 2013 election against former Nyatike MP Edick Anyanga. However, the alliance fell apart shortly after the 2017 election, with the three leaders openly engaging in verbal duels. Okoth said he will ensure Odege is not elected back to Parliament in 2022 and urged residents still sticking around the legislator because of tender and bursary favours that they will only do so until 2022. "As Nyatike, we are done with Odege; we will have anybody as our MP but not him,” he said. The speaker said Odege was among leaders from Nyatike who wanted him impeached recently over Obado’s failed ouster. But Odege's aide Ogony dismissed Okoth's claims, saying, “Odege was elected by the people. We are ready to defend our seat through the people and not via busybodies”. Speaking to the Star later by phone, Odege reiterated his aide's remarks. He dared Obado to face him directly, instead of using the speaker as his attack dog. "What I want to tell Boaz and those who were with him in Sori is that the political league I play in is not worth me replying to him directly. I will tackle Obado directly and not him,” he said. “It is Nyatike people who will vote for me and they know what I have done for them. "I am above being able to be removed from power by Boaz because I am the one who made him an MCA and Obado a governor in 2013 with my resources when they had nothing. Now after collecting a few things here and there, they should not think of unseating me,” he said. He told Obado to "send his attack dogs” to tell Nyatike residents what he has done and the development plans he has for them instead of attacking fellow leaders. “Since Boaz has declared [his interest in] being the next governor, he should ask for my vote and those of my supporters. I don’t think I will offer my support to people who insult me,” he said.