Over the years, fridges have undeniably transformed our lives by giving us the power to safely store and maintain the quality of our food for a prolonged period. The Samsung range of fridges do this effortlessly and so much more. Washing Machines have also set the convenience bar high, Kenyans continue to look for more in machines, and Samsung listened to this and delivers what customers want. At a glance there are key features that make the Samsung range of fridges an indispensable addition to your kitchen. SpaceMax technology by Samsung has been able to make the walls much thinner. This means it creates more storage space without increasing the external dimensions or compromising energy efficiency. The FlexZone is an independently controlled compartment. It stores different foods and drinks at their optimal temperatures, so they stay fresh and tasty for longer. The four pre-set settings are ideal for preserving meats, cooling beverages, keeping fruit/vegetables fresh, or just storing more food. The touch of a button, Power Cool blows intensely cold air into the fridge to quickly cool your groceries or favorite drinks. Additionally, Power Freeze delivers a fast blast of cold air into the freezer. It is great for freezing or firming up frozen food and making ice. Samsung continues to add new features in this range such as an external display. This means there is no need to open the fridge/freezer to change the settings. Every time you open the fridge/freezer, you lose cold air (making it warmer) and use more electricity to reach the required temperature again. This innovation resolves that effortlessly. The Twin Cooling range is now available in 384L, 362L and 321L. A good washing machine is another home essential. That is why Samsung considered that finding ways to save money is a crucial pursuit for many Kenyans, who have to juggle numerous expenses in a tight economy. Keeping water and energy bills low is one way to ensure there is more disposable income to go around. That is why Samsung’s AddWash Front-Loader Washers make so much sense. Built with water and energy conservation in mind, they save energy, use less water and ultimately spare your pocket. With a conservation focus, Samsung considered the frustrating scenario of getting a load up and running and then discovering a few items of clothing that did not make it into the machine. Instead of having to wash a second load, Samsung has eliminated this water and energy-sapping process with its innovative AddWash functionality, which lets you simply and quickly add forgotten clothes and items after a cycle has already started. You can even add special detergent mid wash. These two products from Samsung are coming to make your house a smart home and rivaling with LG who have a fridge and a Washing machine that can connect to your TV and phone.