Deputy President William Ruto has called for a national consensus on the BBI report so that it does not divide the country. "The BBI must be free of the reggae bravado. It must not be divisive. Let us ensure we avoid winners or losers,” Ruto said. The DP said the consensus must not only involve leaders; it must also bring to the table the interests of millions of 'hustlers' and those who have been excluded. The BBI report was handed to President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Handshake partner Raila Odinga on Wednesday. Ruto defended the 'wheelbarrow politics', arguing that it was a serious matter for millions of Kenyans. "If a simple wheelbarrow can cause national debate, then it means we have a serious problem which we must confront," he said. He said wheelbarrows are tools with the potential of changing the lives of millions of poor Kenyans. "The wheelbarrow means two different things to two different sets of people. To some it means nothing, but to millions of poor Kenyans it is a tool that can transform lives," Ruto said. He spoke on Wednesday at Huruma grounds in Eldoret during the funeral of Huruma MCA Peter Chomba. The ward rep died of Covid-19. At the function were also Governors Jackson Mandago of Uasin Gishu and Alex Tolgos of Elgeyo Marakwet. Others were MPs Kimani Ichung'wah (Kikuyu), Oscar Sudi (Kapseret), Caleb Kositany (Soy), Daniel Rono (Keiyo South), William Chepkut (Ainabkoi), Janet Rotich (Turbo) and Kimani Ngunjiri (Bahati). Businessman Bundotich Kiprop Buzeki was also present. Tolgos urged Kenyans to read the BBI report and establish if it contained the details given at public validation forums. "If the BBI is as per the wishes of Kenyans, then we will pass it. If not, we will reject it. It's that simple," Togos said. Ichung'wah said Kenyans should decide how they want the country to be governed. "We must have a robust debate on this document which must also be people-centred. If it only deals with issues of leaders, then we will have a problem with it," he said. Ngunjiri said the BBI should not worry Kenyans because its architects were the same ones who came up with the current Constitution. Sudi said regional leaders would read and understand the BBI report before making a decision. He said the report will be rejected if it does not address the challenges that Kenyans face. "If it does not deal with the problems affecting Kenyans, then I will lead the campaign against it, even if DP Ruto changes his mind and supports it," Sudi said. Kositany said the report should be discussed with consideration given to the economic situation in the country. According to Rono, the BBI is not a priority for Kenyans. "The BBI is dead on arrival because Kenyans priority is empowerment, especially the youth." Edited by A.N 