A court has barred Kisii University from retrenching 121 employees, pending the hearing of a case challenging the decision. Judge Mathews Nduma of the High Court in Kisumu on Monday issued conservatory orders suspending the planned retrenchment. “A conservatory order is issued to preserve the subject matter of the petition pending hearing and determination of the application,” he said. Nduma further certified the matter as urgent and directed parties to serve the university. The case will be mentioned on November 3, for an inter-parties hearing. In the case, 121 Kisii University staffers have protested the institution's decision to retrench them because of the negative effects of the coronavirus. Through lawyer Danstan Omari, they argue that the intended redundancy is "fundamentally flawed in substance and procedure as enshrined in law, the collective agreement in force and the human resource manual". According to court papers, the employees say the primary issue that bedevils the university is not the alleged financial debacle but lack of proper leadership and management. Omari argues that the selection of redundancy candidates disregarded seniority, skills, abilities and reliability of each employee. "The university had stated that the growth of the institution had not been commensurate with the available resources... and that revenue from fees paid by the privately sponsored students has declined,” the petitioners say. They say there is no valid and legitimate reason to effect redundancy of the union members as the university intends to outsource the same functions. This, they say, means they have work to do. They further claim that they were not given any warning of an impending redundancy, which is "utterly a violation of our rights to be heard and right to fair labour practice". “The notice of redundancy dated September 30, 2020, and October 1, 2020, is tantamount to a dismissal of the employees on account of redundancy, which is on the face of it unprocedural and substantially unfair,” they argue.