Potatos are one of the most versatile of ingredients, and if cooked corectly can be one of the most delicious meals, whether it is a side or the main event. One of my favourite potato dishes has to be the Bhajia and this week, we have an amazing and easy recipe for you to try out at home, and a delicious tomato dip that compliments it perfectly. Ingredients 1/2 kg white potatos 1/2 cup gram flour corn starch 1 tbsp salt 1 tbsp ground ginger and garlic 1/2 tbsp Garam masala 1/2 tbsp chilli powder 1/4 cup chopped chives 1/4 cup chopped dhania 3 cups Bahari Fry Cooking oil 370ml water  Sauce 4 tomatoes 1 onion 4 cloves garlic 1 cup water 1 tbsp cumin seeds 1tbsp chilli powder 1 tbsp corriander 1 tbsp curry powder salt to taste  Method. 1. As it takes longer, the first step is to prepare your dipping sauce. In a large frying pan, heat up your Bahari Fry Cooking Oil, then add in your chopped onion. Let this cook until they start to soften. 2. Now add the garlic and fry for a few minutes before adding your spices to the pan. Cook all of the ingrients for three to five minutes, then add the chopped tomato to the pan. 3. Let all of your ingredients cook for about 10 minutes, to allow the tomato to break down. Once that has happened, add half a cup of water to the mixture, and lower the heat, then cook it for a further fifteen minutes. 4. In the mean time, to make the Bhajia batter, combine your gram flour and ginger and garlic, spices and herbs together,then add your water. Mix it together until you have a smooth batter. 5. Slice your potatoes, making sure that they are all the same thickness, then coat them in cornflour. This helps the batter stick to them better and gives you crispy and delicious bhajias. 6. Coat your potatoes in the batter, making sure they are all evenly coated, before frying them in hot oil, until they are golden brown, crispy on the outside and soft and fluffy on the inside. 7. Once cooked, remove them from the oil and drain any excess. Season with salt to taste and enjoy with the dip you had made earlier.