Former Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto has praised the BBI report, urging Kenyans to pass it. "I am yet to find the actual problem to the current proposals in the BBI report…To me the report is good," he said. Rutto said although there are elements have issues, he would rather the report be passed. "Moving forward, there will be need for coalition governments…We want leaders who listen to Kenyans, have Ministers who answer questions in Parliament." Rutto spoke during an interview with Citizen TV on Monday night "That there will be no domination by any political party," he said. The BBI report was launched on Monday, with leaders across the political divide praising and critiquing it. President Uhuru Kenyatta said the BBI report provides long-term solutions to pressing challenges holding back the country from progress such as disunity, lack of inclusivity and youth unemployment. He urged Kenyans to focus on fixing these challenges through the BBI process and avoid being distracted by political sideshows. The Head of State pointed out that Kenya was a highly tribal nation whose politics of negative ethnicity had created a predictable cycle of post election violence since 1992. “The fact of the matter is we are a tribal society and we want to run from that. Let us not cheat one another. I will also admit that I have been part and parcel of the negative politics. “That is why we must address the issue of inclusivity so that every single community will feel they are part and parcel of this country,” the President said. Deputy President William expressed his reservations about the BBI report in its current form, calling for a review to reflect the needs of all Kenyans. The DP, speaking during the launch of the BBI report at the Bomas of Kenya, said the proposal on the establishment of the office of  Ombudsman, which  will be appointed by the Executive is a derogation of the independence of the Judiciary. Ruto said that this might take the country back to the dark days, where the president used to issue guidelines to judges in some cases via a mere phone call. Meanwhile, former Committee of Experts member Bobby Mkangi said the BBI does not cure the ‘winner takes it’ all problem after elections. "It creates a structure where the winner takes a bit more of the ‘winner takes it all," he said. Raila, while quoting the Bible from the book of Isaiah, said the referendum should be a unifying factor where everyone is brought on board. While referencing to the Quran, Raila said those who listen to all statements and follow the best of it are the ones whom Allah has chosen. "Let us talk to each other and not at each other. The BBI is not about Uhuru becoming Prime Minister and Raila the President, it is about what is the best for the country," Raila said. Mkangi said the Prime Minister position in the BBI report is nowhere near was in the Bomas Draft. "It is not categorical that the Prime Minister in BBI will be leader of government," Mkangi said.