 Taita Taveta ranchers have been advised to dig water pans in their properties to harvest water when the short rains start any time this month. Kenya Wildlife Service Tsavo conservation area assistant director Robert Njue said harvesting rain water will reduce human-wildlife conflict. Njue said the conflict is caused by prolonged droughts, resulting in  water scarcity. “Ranchers can harvest rain water as a way of solving the water challenges. It is a good approach towards taming the persistent conflict cases,” he told a meeting in Voi. The county has 28 ranches which mostly serve as rangelands and wildlife corridors. Overstocking and illegal herding in the ranches have been blamed for triggering human-wildlife conflict as many herders invade Tsavo National Park. The influx of herders from elsewhere has been linked to frequent fires, poaching and insecurity in Kenya’s largest wildlife conservancy. Cases of human-wildlife conflict in Taita Taveta have resulted in deaths, loss of property and injuries. Njue further called on the ranchers to embrace conservation and plant more trees. “Ranches occupy a huge area in the county and need to be at the frontline in reforestation programmes. We urge them to take the lead in the tree planting campaign,” he said. County Commissioner Rodah Onyancha asked the community to plant more fruits and indigenous trees in their farms during the short rains to attain 10 per cent forest cover by 2022. The county targets to plant at least one million seedlings annually in  schools, farms, ranches, river lines and the soil-eroded Taita Hills. “Only 200,000 seedlings have so far been planted this year, leaving a deficit of over 800,000,” Onyancha said. Past forest cover baseline surveys indicate that the county has 3.6 per cent forest cover. “This poses a challenge to the county's ambitious plan of planting one million trees by the end of this year. Tree planting should be our collective responsibility,” the administrator said. The tree planting campaign is part of an aggressive afforestation strategy to promote conservation and boost food production in the region. Onyancha called on the youth, community groups and farmers to grow seedlings in their nurseries as a source of income. The national government under the Greening Kenya Campaign has allocated Sh540 million for the ongoing exercise. Groups with tree nurseries will benefit through the sale of seedlings to schools, county environment committees and other conservation stakeholders. Edited by Henry Makori