 Some 63 maize stores across the country will be reinspected before they are certified to keep food for human consumption. The Agriculture and Food Authority has certified 58 maize stores in readiness for the storage of harvest. The others were recommended for reinspection so some corrective actions are conducted, interim director of Food and Crops Directorate at AFA Leonard Kubok said. Speaking to reporters during a tour of National Cereals and Produce Board depots in the North Rift, Kubok said the directorate has outlined parameters the stores must meet to be certified for the Warehouse Receipt System. The stores must have sound pest management and seepage systems, easy accessibility, good ventilation, well-done floors, pallets, CCTV systems, septic structures, fire extinguishers and enough toilets. The main entrance must have a canopy. Kubok said under phase one, a total of 121 depots in Nandi, Uasin Gishu, Trans Nzoia, West Pokot, Nairobi and Eastern regions were inspected between May and June. “Out of them, 26 facilities that included 25 warehouses and one silo all in North Rift directly qualified to be certified. The other 32 were placed under the second category certification pending minor corrective action by the management of NCPB,” Kubok said. The 26 stores and silos scored more than 90 per cent of the total checklist and were certified after meeting all the outlined parameters. "Another 32 were approved pending collective action as they have minor non-compliance issues. Phase one was completed and information provided and submitted to NCPB management for action,” Kubok said. Phase two was concluded in mid-October and covered 97 facilities in South Rift, Northern Kenya and Lake/Western regions. “The report has just been completed and information will be shared with the management of NCPB once it has been adopted by AFA management, but the exercise is complete,” he said. The 58 certified stores have a capacity of 6.8 million bags of 90kg. NCPB regional manager in charge of North Rift Gilbert Rotich said the total storage capacity in the region is 4.7 million bags of 90kg or 8.6 million bags of 50kgs. All stores under the management of the NCPB have a capacity of 21.8 million bags of 90kg each or 39.2 million bags of 50kg each. “As part of the reforms, maize in the stores will be graded whereby grade one will attract a premium price compared to grade two. The Warehouse Receipt System will give some value for a farmer who has done something extra and those with maize in grade one will get more money,” Rotich said. Kubok said no private facilities have been certified although one such warehouse has been inspected at Moi’s Bridge area. “Some parastatals such as Kenya National Trading Corporation and New Kenya Planters Cooperative Union have expressed interest for the Warehouse Receipt System inspection,” he said. Uasin Gishu Agriculture executive Samuel Yego asked the ministry to create awareness in counties before implementing the WRS. “The WRS should be made clear before it is implemented, but we are yet to see any team from Kilimo House coming to the counties so that we are in harmony,” Yego said.  Edited by P.O