President Uhuru Kenyatta has urged Kenyans to ignore rumours being spread  regarding the National Integrated Identity Management system (NIIMS) Speaking during a Cabinet meeting on Friday at the KWS Law Enforcement Academy in Manyani, the President said that some people have been spreading rumours that a German firm has been handling the Huduma Namba exercise. Deputy President William Ruto's allies had earlier this month alleged the system was being managed by a foreign firm, adding that there was a scheme to rig the 2022 elections. However, Uhuru said, "After watching and listening to certain individuals speaking a lot of total ignorance...talking I don't know about Germans coming to do Huduma Namba, I don't know which contract being signed, how many billions...these are the Germans you've been talking about (young Kenyan innovators). Uhuru asked the people who are still doubting about the entire Huduma Namba process to engage the innovators. "You can meet them in person and ask them all the questions that you have." The president said that the young innovators were behind the development of a platform that saw the collection as well as submission of census outcomes in record time. "Have helped us to develop a platform that allowed us to do our census and deliver the results of our census in record time until we have countries from all over Africa, including Europe wanting to know how we managed to develop the system." He applauded the Kenyan youth working with the multi-agency government team on various national security projects for their outstanding innovation, commitment, and patriotism. The President added that the innovators will spearhead the ease of doing business in the country and that some of their ideas and platforms will have commercial value. He said the government will support them. “We shall support them to develop their companies to become world-class companies, developing their applications, their platforms for use not only by Kenyans, Africans but even the rest of the world.”