2014 World Half Marathon silver medallist Mary Ngugi is disappointed by the postponement of the 2021 Boston Marathon after investing heavily in training ahead of the event. Ngugi said the postponement has put her in limbo as Boston Marathon was her main focus next year. “Honestly, I don't have any plans now as everything is just uncertain. I was hoping to race in Boston next year but the postponement makes it seem like it’s not going to happen at all,” Ngugi said. The 2016 Houston Marathon winner hopes  she will compete at alternative marathons to test her fitness levels albeit still unsure of which events to enlist. “My training has been going on very well. I’m hoping I will have some races although I don’t know when because most races have been postponed but hopefully, they won’t be cancelled for long. It is not easy to train while uncertain of when next you will be able to compete,” she said. Despite the setback, Ngugi is intensifying her training while spending some quality time with her family. However, the suspension of sporting activities in the country continues to impede her training schedule especially the aspects that require teamwork. “During this Covid-19 period, there have been a lot of challenges in training. It has been hard to train alone because the camps and training in groups has been prohibited. Therefore, my plan is just to keep fit and hope that the situation improves,” she said. The 125th Boston Marathon — that was to be held in April 2021 as is customary — was yesterday postponed to the fall of 2021, possibly in September or October. Boston Athletics Association CEO Tom Grilk while announcing the decision, said  it is not feasible to organise and hold the event in less than six months in line with Covid-19 prevention regulations. “The postponement to a fall date provides us with the opportunity to work with stakeholders in exploring ways to adjust the in-person experience for community members, spectators, volunteers and participants,” Grilk said. The organising committee may also decide to reduce the size of the field or shift the date of the marathon to a weekend. “New dates for the marathon will be communicated before the end of the year. This is the same case for other details, such as registration, field size and event plan,” he said. The 2020 Boston Marathon — initially planned for April 20 —  was similarly cancelled and replaced with a Virtual race.