Two Nyeri legislators have told residents to focus on the many gains of the Building Bridges Initiative report. Senator Ephraim Maina and Kieni MP Kanini Kega rooted for the report to spur development. The two lawmakers spoke to the media after President Uhuru Kenyatta’s visit to Nyeri on Sunday. Maina called on residents not to focus on the cost implications of the report and instead look at the benefits they will enjoy once the proposals are implemented. He said peace and tranquillity will prevail in the country after the document is approved. Some Kenyans have argued that a referendum and an increased number of political seats will burden taxpayers. But Maina said the BBI is promising better and peaceful lives and urged residents to support it. “Peace is very important to us because the Kikuyu community is everywhere in the country trading with other communities and that peaceful coexistence, which has been guaranteed in the BBI, is what our people are interested in,” he said. The senator said no one knows how the future presidents will be like and therefore people can only bank their hopes on the Constitution and not an individual. He expressed hope that the BBI will receive overwhelming support in the Mt Kenya region. Maina said a huge percentage of the recommendations benefit wananchi and the few contentious issues will be resolved. He supported an expended executive, saying it will bring inclusivity in government as many communities will feel represented. "Like any other African country, tribalism is deeply entrenched in our country and that is why it is very important for various communities to have representatives in government and feel part and parcel of it,” he said. The BBI proposes the creation of the posts of the prime minister and two deputies besides those of president and deputy president. Cabinet ministers will mostly be MPs. Kega said he had read the document and according to his assessment, more than 90 per cent of what is in it is good for Kenyans. He told residents to expect regular visits by the President going forward as he has many projects, both ongoing and completed, to inspect and commission, even as he popularises the BBI report in the region. “I am sure he will be back before the end of next month. He has a lot of projects to launch and the BBI to sell,” he said. The projects include the revived Nairobi-Nanyuki railway, Chaka market, Mau Mau road, Kenol-Isiolo dual carriageway and Othaya Level 6 Hospital. The MP said Kenyans are waiting for direction from the President and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga on the BBI. During his visit to the county, Uhuru castigated the Tangatanga wing of Jubilee for going round the country giving post-2022 pledges to Kenyans, yet they are already in government. The head of state had attended a church service at PECA Tumutumu in Mathira during the commemoration of 100 years since the first group of African church elders was ordained. He also addressed residents at Giagatika shopping centre.