 The Kenya National Commission on Human Rights has raised concerns over the many instances of spouses separating following the birth of intersex children. The parents divorce or separate after blaming one another for bringing a curse into the family. Veronica Mwangi, a KNCHR director, said most intersex children in Kenya face serious challenges following the separation of their parents. Mwangi said some intersex children are abandoned when such breakups occur, making it difficult for them to be integrated into society. She said intersex children do not get properly vaccinated owing to the requirement of identification of a child as a boy or a girl. Further, when they grow up, intersex persons find it difficult to get documents like a national identification card and birth certificate which are crucial for other services. Mwangi said this kind of discrimination is unnecessary as intersex persons are humans who should be treated just like other people. The main reason for their being born intersex is that biological factors caused them to have ambiguous sex organs, she said. The director said the government has realised the challenges the intersex persons go through and thus put measures for their recognition and support. A task force to cater to the welfare of intersex persons handed over its report to the government in March 2019. Mwangi said the government is using the report in taking interventions to eliminate discrimination against intersex children and adults.  For instance, intersex persons were counted during the 2019 national census. Mwangi said the Intersex Persons Implementation and Coordination Committee has been created to support the government in addressing their plight. She called on all intersex persons to register themselves with the government or parents to sign up their children with the state for recognition and to get all the human rights. Mwangi spoke at Embu Stadium when she presided over the International Intersex Awareness Day. Embu county commissioner Abdullahi Galgalo asked chiefs to trace intersex children for registration so they can get support for education, health, and every other need. In a speech read on his behalf by Embu West deputy county commissioner Caroline Imaya, Galgalo warned that persons caught discriminating against intersex persons will be prosecuted. He said the government is committed to safeguarding the human rights of intersex persons to ensure an end to their stigmatisation and discrimination. Galgalo said in Embu 24 intersex persons have been identified out of the 1,524 in the country. He hailed their parents and the adults who decided to openly declare their status as their actions were helping the government fight the stigma surrounding their condition. Imaya accused some parents of dumping or hiding their children who are intersex, believing that they are bewitched. She said this is a bad attitude as being intersex is just a biological condition and thus there should be no cause for fear.  