Kenya Simbas’ forward Monate Akuei is slated to feature at the world 10-a-side tournament next month in Bermuda. Akuei has risen from obscurity to prominence in the past two seasons—first with Nakuru RFC then with Shujaa in the Safari Sevens last season. He then made his debut for the Simbas in test matches against Zambia and Zimbabwe last year in the Victoria Cup. Akuei has been in the United States since the beginning of the year and had a superb tournament in the Tiger Serves Series in September, catching the attention of event organisers in Bermuda. Akuei will join a star-studded Kenyan contingent at the Caribbean event including Kenya Sevens’ skipper Andrew Amonde, talisman Collins Injera, Oscar Ouma and Willy Ambaka. A delighted Akuei said he was looking forward to the event which will bring together top Sevens’ players from across the globe such as South Africa, Fiji, New Zealand, England and Australia. “The event is going to be big. I will be rubbing shoulders with some of the players I have idolised and it will be a  dream come true,” added Akuei. He said his long term dream is to use rugby to lift his family back home. “I really want to help my family and get a professional contract through this event and this is an opportunity to test myself against the best in the world,” noted Akuei. The back-row forward hopes to play a part for the Kenya Simbas in future international assignments especially the World Cup qualifiers which are slated for 2022. “It’s something Ian really looking once we go back to normal y after the pandemic and I want to improve my game and get better and be in contention for a place in the team,” added Akuei. The Nakuru flanker said the country has some of the players, who can play professional in some of the lucrative leagues in the world. “In my short playing career with Nakuru and playing in the Kenya cup and Sevens circuit, there are lots of players who can play at the highest level in Europe, USA, New Zealand or even South Africa and all they need is opportunity.