Football Kenya Federation's plan to air Kenya's premier League is in jeopardy after certain clubs of the defunct Kenya Premier League declined to sign a letter of endorsement with StarTimes. In a letter seen by the Star  Newspaper, Mathare United chair Bob Munro says the clubs  would be committing an illegality by  signing the letter of endorsement. "What it also means is that the FKF President sold broadcast rights to StarTimes, which are still collectively owned by KPL and not FKF. In summary, won't our clubs be committing an illegal act by signing the proposed Letter of Endorsement before holding a KPL Governing Council and/or AGM at which our clubs officially and legally agree to cancel our still valid collective agreement to pool our rights in KPL?" Munro says in letter to Captain Erick Oloo of Ulinzi Stars. Munro further argues that home clubs own broadcast rights and billboards and are free to sell them individually or as a collective entity.  "KPL clubs signed a still valid legal agreement to pool/sell their rights via KPL. The present legal owner of our clubs' collective broadcast rights is the KPL," he said. Oloo was appointed in July this year to head a five-man transitional committee from KPL to oversee the transfer of the top league's management to FKF.  This was after the lapse of a five-year agreement between FKF and KPL this year in which the latter was granted the mandate to manage the top league. According to the agreement, TV and radio broadcast fee was to be divided equally between FKF and FKF-KPL Joint Development Fund.  "KPL shall pay the equivalent of 5.0% of the annual net league title rights fee of which 4.0% paid to FKF and 1.0% to the FKF-KPL Joint Development Fund (JDF) plus 5.0% of the annual net TV and radio broadcast fee, to be divided equally of which 2.5% paid to FKF and 2.5% to the FKF- KPL Joint Development Fund (JDF). The percentages shall be applied to the net amounts received and banked by KPL in Kenya shillings," the agreement states. Signed in September this year, the seven-year deal with StarTimes was to cover men and women's national football teams and 30 games in the National Super League - in addition to the country's top football league. In a letter dated October 13, 2020, Oloo sent a copy of the letter of endorsement to all KPL chair for their signatures.  "Kindly fill in the details on clubs official letter head. Same to be sent back to me by Oct 19, 2020 for further action," Oloo said. The latest tussle represents another episode of the stormy relationship between the two entities that goes way back to the reign of former FKF supremo Sam Nyamweya.