The European Union and Kenya Red Cross Society have provided PPE, pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical supplies worth Sh7.7  million to bolster healthcare in Kisumu. The supplies will be distributed to health facilities in what Kisumu Deputy Governor Mathews Owili said was a major boost to the county's interventions. The donation is part of a Sh636 million grant under the EU Emergency Response Project launched in June to support the Covid-19 response in 20 counties. The project is being implemented in 11 counties where Red Cross has intensified community sensitisation. They are Kisumu, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa, Mombasa, Kwale, Lamu, Kilifi, Migori, Busia and Kakamega. At the ceremony, the EU Ambassador to Kenya Simon Mordue reaffirmed the union's commitment to the country during the pandemic. “We commend the government of Kenya for the efforts and measures it has put in place during this Covid-19 period. The robust response has saved lives that could have been lost to the virus. As long as the virus continues to pose a threat anywhere in the world, all humankind remains at risk,” Mordue said. He said they are happy to have stood by the vulnerable at their time of need. "Our support to the Kenya Red Cross Society has concretely seen the Red Cross train almost 45,000 health workers and 165 county rapid response members," the ambassador said. This was in addition to a social safety net programme where 20,000 vulnerable households received cash transfers, complementing the Ministry of Labour’s Inua Jamii programme. For three months, 11,250 households received Sh5,668 per month and 8,750 households, identified through the Nyumba Kumi system and independently verified by Red Cross, received Sh7,668 per month. "This is testimony of our commitment to support Kenya during this pandemic,” Mordue said. As a member of the Covid-19 national task force, KRCS has been on the frontline in the pandemic preparedness and response activities, key among them training of healthcare workers and volunteers, distribution of hand washing machines, government community screening and contact tracing. Secretary general Asha Mohammed cautioned Kenyans against complacency in the fight to stop pandemic, noting this would negate the gains realised over the last six months. “While we fully support the President's move to relax some of the restrictions that have been in place over the last six months so that people can rebuild their lives that have been affected by the pandemic, we urge personal responsibility to ensure that we do not see another spike in infections that may force us to reintroduce the restrictions,” she said. Edited by Henry Makori