Reigning World U20 1,500m champion George Manangoi says he is eager to make a resounding comeback to the track after spending the better part of the year at the Kenya Defence Forces Recruits Training School in Eldoret. Manangoi was among the thousands of recruits who graduated last month at the Eldoret Barracks and was later posted to Mombasa. The former World U-18 champion revealed that he is looking forward to partly trading the gun for the running spikes early next year after completing his induction. Manangoi says he returns to the track hungrier for success having missed the rescheduled Diamond League meeting in the recently concluded season. The athlete, who prior to joining the military was training under the watchful eye of coach Bernard Ouma at the Rongai Athletics Club, said the military training has helped him keep fit throughout the months. "I badly miss the track and my teammates who have done well in the Diamond League meets. Although I have been training by myself, it's not enough and effective as opposed to running as a team. I return more hungrier for success but I am aware competition at the senior level is more competitive," he said. He added: "At first, I was worried of my fitness but the military training has strengthened me. Training at the coast is an added advantage despite the heat. The coronavirus pandemic is a blessing in disguise to me as most of the events which I was initially preparing for were cancelled thus I didn't miss much," he said Meanwhile, Manangoi revealed that the rescheduled 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo, will be his first competitive event post-graduation. The youthful athlete made his first international debut last year during the Africa Games staged in Rabat, Morocco.He was part of the Kenyan team to last year's World Athletics Championships in Doha, Qatar. "I think I will make my first competitive appearance at the Olympics. It's a major event which will attract high profile athletes both in the trials and the event itself  thus I have to prepare well and on time. I will discuss more with my coach and management once I am back to the club."