 Deputy President William Ruto and his allies have ridiculed President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga over their sudden change of heart to help hustlers. In their mockery, the DP's lieutenants claimed the national conversation has suddenly changed with the two handshake partners now following suit to empower youths and the common mwananchi. Ruto has been on a charm offensive to market his hustler movement targeting ordinary citizens earning their livelihoods from small businesses. “It took Ruto for the President, Raila and the entire country to discuss matters mkokoteni, wheelbarrows, boda boda and all issues of hustlers,” Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen said. He spoke as Uhuru met the leadership of boda boda associations at Pumwani Social Hall in Nairobi on Friday where he launched a savings scheme for them. The meeting came only a day after Uhuru and Raila met a similar group of boda boda riders in Kisii in what was seen as an attempt to counter the DP who has been hosting youth groups and dishing out goodies to them. “Currently the President is in Pumwani to support boda boda owners. Why? Because someone changed the conversation,” Murkomen said. “The makanga (tout), wheelbarrow, mkokoteni, mama mboga (vegetable vendor) and boda boda guys are finally at the centre of our conversation." "With empowerment, all of them can be like Mr. Hilton, a shoeshiner who finally owned Hilton hotels. Welcome Tinga to the Hustler movement,” Ruto tweeted in a chiding reference to Raila. Ruto has been under sharp attacks for his hustler vs dynasty campaign narrative with critics claiming it risks dividing the country between the haves and have nots. But the DP has insisted that his agenda has always been about empowering the struggling youth and women otherwise known as hustlers by boosting their small businesses and creating opportunities for them. He has been hosting delegations of women and youth including boda bodas, taxi drivers and matatus touts and giving wheelbarrows, handcarts, salon equipment among others. Soy MP Caleb Kositany, a Ruto confidant, said, “Empowering them was never about politics. To the boda boda team, thank William Ruto. You are now part of the conversation. Hope it's not for BBI only." Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot said boda bodas have become the most sought after in the country by politicians. "The conversation has changed. Finally, boda boda riders are the most sought after group in the country. They can no longer be ignored,” Cheruiyot said.  Edited by P.O