The political class is in the radar of the Director of Public Prosecutions over the incitement of Kenyans into violence. “We are concerned by the political environment as it is. My office is monitoring politicians and we will not hesitate to prosecute anyone inciting members of the public,” DPP Noordin Haji said. He spoke at the weekend in Ijara during an inspection tour of water projects in the company of area Member of Parliament Sophia Abdinoor and Water Principal Secretary Joseph Irungu. Haji said his office will press charges against anyone who incites the public into violence irrespective of their political affiliations. “We ask political leaders to be cautious in their political gatherings. We are closely monitoring their moves,” the DPP said a fortnight after two young people were killed at Kenol in Murang'a during a church function that was graced by the Deputy President. The October 4 violence involved the Tangatanga and Kieleweke faction of the governing Jubilee party. DP William Ruto was visiting the area to fundraise for the African Independent Pentecostal Church of Africa. Haji reiterated that the scandal at Kemsa is ongoing and was confident that the culprits will be brought to book. He said the EACC was piecing together evidence to build a strong case and dismissed claims that the anti-graft agency was the weak link in the fight against corruption. The DPP called for patience as "soon the heads will start rolling". Lately, there have been highly charged political gatherings of the two Jubilee factions which lean towards Ruto and President Uhuru Kenyatta respectively. Several politicians have been prosecuted for incitement and hate speeches allegedly made during the rallies. They include Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi and his Emurua Dikirr counterpart Johanna Ng’eno.  Sudi is accused of making inflammatory remarks likely to stir violence. He is also accused of using demeaning words against Mama Ngina, President Kenyatta’s mother. The relationship between the President and his deputy is on the rocks. The latter has ignored the head of state's urgings against early campaign for the 2022 general elections as it interfered with his Big Four agenda legacy. Ruto has been criss-crossing the country fundraising for churches and dishing out wheelbarrows and motorbikes to youths in what is perceived as tuff consolidation.    - mwaniki fm