Teachers are seeking Parliament's intervention to reduce powers conferred to the Salaries and Remuneration Commission in the BBI report. The Kenya Union of Post-Primary Education Teachers also want the Teachers Service Commission stripped of powers to train and regulate teachers in the country. Akello Misori, the Kuppet secretary-general, on Sunday argued that the SRC's powers had been expanded to negotiate and set salaries of public servants, a decision that does not sit well with the union. “This is the bit that we say we shall resist. We may not give the details of what we may do about it as of now but we will convince other Kenyans to see it from our light so that this is not entrenched in the constitution,” Misori said. Misori said the decision undermines the role of the union to lead the collective bargaining of workers' salaries. “This will negate the set principle of collective bargaining that is set in the constitution,” Misori said. As for TSC, Kuppet argues that the commission should remain a teacher employer, and regulation should be delegated to a different body. He observed that the TSC had over time grown 'bullish' in exercising its mandate as a regulator. "The power they have (TSC) is overwhelming. In matters like disciplinary action TSC is doing this without ethics," Misori said. So too, the union takes issue with TSC powers to review standards of education and training of persons entering teaching. “You cannot have your cake and eat it,” Misori said. “We continue to advocate for the creation of an independent professional regulator for teachers. The TSC can remain with its mandate as an employer,” he said. Support BBI Despite the bone of contention, the union notes that they support wholly other aspects of the report. In particular, Misori says that the report proposal for an expansive executive to include a Prime Minister and two deputies and leader of the opposition in Parliament, an overhaul on electoral management, and inclusion of the health service commission, was laudable. The union also supports the improvement of women representation in leadership positions. “Kuppet will rally teachers and all workers to build a movement capable of reshaping the political landscape. We will reach out to other trade unions to create a framework of consultation and grassroot initiatives to bring Kenyans to the BBI process,” Misori said. Kuppet also supported proposals to halt loan repayment for graduates until after four years of university or college completion. The union further lauds the plan to delocalise both teachers and students. Terming the decision noble for integration. "You don't say that because you are a lawyer and you come from Kendu Bay then you confine your practice to the area,” Misori said. We should discourage localisation of a profession.