Five governors have urged Kenyans to adopt value addition in fish farming to improve their earnings from aquaculture. They are governors Anyang' Nyong’o (Kisumu), Martin Wambora (Embu), Mutahi Kahiga (Nyeri), Alfred Mutua (Machakos) and Tharaka Nithi’s Muthomi Njuki. Nyong’o said Kenyans can make various products from fish, for export. He cited Kisumu where small-scale enterprises produce leather from fish skin and use it to make footwear. Nyong’o said Kenya has always imported more fish than it needs to import, yet the country has capacity to produce more fish than is consumed locally and export. He said there is need to harness modern ways of fish production if the country has to satisfy the needs of its people and export surplus. Njuki said value addition will break the cultural barriers that have made many people not to embrace fish consumption. “Value addition can be used to break the cultural barriers and increase fish consumption in the country. What a better way to do it than to go commercial in terms of farming,” he said. He also emphasised the need to ensure fish inputs are made cheaper for farmers to improve viability of aquaculture. He cited the need to explore new markets saying fish farmers face high competition from fish from China. County extension officers, he said, should go beyond the farms and address the conservation of rivers where fish are stocked. The governors spoke on Monday in Nyeri Town during the signing of an MoU between the Ministry of Fisheries and nine counties for the implementation of a Sh15 billion programme – called Aquaculture Business Development Programme - funded by IFAD and national government. The Sh15 billion programme will run for eight years and will benefit 15 counties, six of which had signed their MoUs earlier. Embu Governor Wambora said marketing is important and should also be catered for, adding that cold storage is important to help farmers create wealth. Mutua, the Machakos governor, said there is need for diversification and to include fish as part of domestic animals for food production. “Food security is critical and more so important as a source of protein. But it is important not just because its food, but it is also important if it can bring us money,” he said. He said fish farming should be made a viable business. Mutua said there is need to fight pollution in rivers and other water bodies, saying pollution has ruined them and therefore fish from them may be a cause of cancer. He said water bodies should be cleaned to ensure fish from them are free from chemicals that are harmful. Kahiga said Nyeri County stands to gain nutritionally as the county ranks high in non-communicable diseases mostly because of lifestyle and the food people eat. “But with the introduction of fish farming around here and also the input by ABDP, we are really seeing changes in that,” he said. Nyeri, he said, has seen tangible development in terms of working together with ABDP, saying ponds have been renovated and fish pond linings provided for several farmers. The PS for Fisheries, Micheni Ntiba, who was the chief guest, expressed hope that the programme will be a success in increasing incomes and attaining food and nutritional security for poor rural households involved in aquaculture. He said the country is still eating little fish saying in the world, the per capita consumption of fish is more than 20 kilogrammes per person per year. “But ours is only approaching five kilogrammes per person per year. So Kenyans are not eating enough fish but we have aspirations that by 2030, we are going to raise the per capita to ten kilogrammes per person per year,” he said. The PS also reopened the IFAD building which houses the head office of ABDP. “We also need a lot of education to our people because like in Mt. Kenya we produce all the water that goes to the Indian Ocean but we have never ensured we have quality fish in our rives,” he said. Others present were deputy governors, CECs and chief officers who represented their various counties.