Promotion favourites Strathmore Leos and Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology have hailed the decision to complete the KRU Championship and Nationwide play-offs. Kenya Rugby  Union (KRU)  secretary Ian Mugambi said quarter-final, semi final and final fixtures will be played before the start of the new season. Speaking separately, MMUST head coach Ochieng Ahaya and Leos counterpart Louis Kisia said the decision was fair and sober. Leos won the KRU Championship unbeaten while MMUST finished second and are favourites to qualify for Kenya Cup next season. “In the prevailing circumstances, the decision to proceed with the two tiers  is reasonable. Cancelling the season would have disadvantaged many teams that have heavily invested in the game,” added the veteran coach. Ahaya remained confident that MMUST will qualify to the Kenya Cup next season. “We are waiting for the government to give a go ahead for the resumption of contact sports before we  hit the ground running. Our target remains a place in Kenya Cup next season,” noted Ahaya. He said even though his charges have been out of action for seven months, they have been training to keep fit on their own. Kisia said the decision by KRU to have the play-off proceed was a big win for rugby. “This is a win-win situation. The previous decision to void the season shattered us. Some of us invested heavily and won the regular season unbeaten,” noted Kisia. He exuded confidence that Leos will return to Kenya Cup after one season in the second tier. “The boys have been doing home workouts since sports activities were suspended. When we resume training, I’m sure we are not going to start from zero. We are upbeat and we can’t wait to resume normal training,” he added. Kisumu RFC and Western Bulls, who had been relegated from the top tier and Championship sides Kisii and Mombasa had their fate sealed last week because they had completed their matches. The transfer window opened on Tuesday and will run up to November 30. Only players who played in the previous season shall be eligible for the play off fixtures. In the Kenya Cup quarter finals, former Kenya Cup champions Mean Machine will host Egerton Wasps while United States International University will battle debutants Northern Suburbs. The winner between USIU and Northern Suburbs will play Strathmore Leos while the winner between Machine and Wasps will travel to Kakamega County for a semi-final against Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology.