Potato farming in Nyandarua has received a boost with subsidised farming equipment to increase yields and profits. The National Potato Council of Kenya entered into an agreement with a private company to supply farmers with equipment. The joint partnership with TingA, East Africa’s network of tractors and farm equipmen, will reduce the cost of farming, post-harvest losses and the cost of transporting produce. Council CEO Wachira Kaguongo said farmers will be able to access potato planters, poughs, air seeders, boom sprayers and harvesters from the farm network. He said availability of equipment on  the ‘Viazi Soko Digital Platform’ will result in further mechanisation, better cost management and increased efficiency. “This will save time, lower costs of farming and reduce inefficiency associated with use of traditional manual labor that keeps farmers from maximising the potential of their farms," Kaguongo said. “It's projected that 100,000 farmers will be reached within three years while 200,000 farmers will be reached in five years," he said. Demand for potatoes has risen countrywide, though in the past potato consumption has been associated with specific cmmunities. “Research shows consumption of the tuber is changing from fresh potatoes to processed food products, Kaguongohe said. TingA CEO Phillip Nyandieka said  individual potato farmers and farmers' groups from counties such as Narok, Meru, Nakuru and Laikipia, among others, will benefit from the agreement. He said  through the pact, farmers would access farm inputs at subsidised rates, increasing their profits. “For the country to be able to produce the food required, it is critical we embrace technologies that make life easier for citizens and ensure food security,” Nyandieka said. He said the  project aims to enhance digital transformation across the agriculture value chain, increase use of equipment and improve farm efficiency. Canadian research has indicated more than 44,000 tons of processed leftovers could yield four to five million litres of ethanol. Potatoes are rich in starch that can be liquified and fermented to produce fuel-grade ethanol. (Edited by V. Graham)