Murang’a University of Technology has agreed to partner with the county administration to establish a campus for studies in agriculture and environment. The campus will be set up at Mariira Farmers Training Centre that has over 140 acres of land in Kigumo subcounty. Some 50 acres will be hived off for the campus set to welcome its first batch of 44 students on October 2. For the time being, the campus will use the farmers’ training centre’s facilities as it builds own infrastructure. Governor Mwangi wa Iria and the university’s vice-chancellor Dickson Nyariki signed an MoU to establish the campus on Thursday. Nyariki is expected to present to the county an investment report on how it will utilise the 50 acres of land. Wa Iria promised to support the university until the campus is up and running. The county, he said, is pre-dominantly agricultural with over 90 per cent of residents depending on the sector for survival. The governor said research from the campus will enhance agricultural production while Kigumo businesses will flourish with the influx of students. Wa Iria said Murang’a University of Technology is the most valuable catalyst of development in the town that also hosts the county headquarters. With over 6,000 students, the institution provides about Sh1 billion to accommodation and food businesses. “The economy of Murang’a town has been down since the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country because the students were not around,” Wa Iria said. The governor said many small traders, especially food vendors working near the university have suffered due to the Covid-19 closures. “The university has become a source of livelihood for many people and the same will be replicated in Kigumo when the campus is up and running and this is why we have decided to partner with it directly,” he added. Last year, the two parties partnered so the university could start offering health sciences courses using local health facilities for practical learning. The partnership bolstered the county government’s plans to upscale health facilities and consequently improve services. The vice-chancellor lauded the county for its commitment to boost education standards in the county while empowering the local community. Nyariki said the partnership will help the county become a leader in agricultural production, infrastructural and socio-economic development in the country. “The campus will see a greater utilisation of the centre to improve agricultural production and environmental conservation in county while enhancing the capacity building of the community,” he said.