Deputy President William Ruto has urged leaders to prioritise the needs of ordinary people amid constitutional amendment talks. He said it would be unfair to focus on the needs of a few leaders over those of millions of Kenyans living in poverty. Ruto said talks about the creation of leadership positions should play second fiddle to the needs of the people. "There are those who want us not to talk about the needs of ordinary people. But we will not stop. We must change our leadership approach to be heavy on the lower part of the wealth pyramid,” he said. The Deputy President said it was time Kenyans moved away from tribal politics and instead focus on empowerment initiatives that would transform their lives. He asked leaders to direct their energy on addressing the various challenges affecting ordinary citizens. The Deputy President spoke on Saturday in Igembe South and Tigania West Constituencies in Meru County where he inspected various development projects and led several empowerment programmes. Present were MPs Mithika Linturi (Meru), John Paul Mwirigi (Igembe South), Gichunge Kabeabea (Tigania East), John Mutunga (Tigania West), Rindikiri Mugambi (Buuri), Raheem Dawood (North Imenti), Beatrice Nkatha (Tharaka Nithi),  Rehema Jaldesa (Woman Rep, Isiolo) and Cecily Mbarire (nominated). Others were Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), Lydiah Haika (Taita Taveta), Mary Seneta (nominated), Didmus Barasa (Kimilili), Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), Nimrod Mbai (Kitui East), Kimani Ichungwa (Kikuyu), George Theuri (Embakasi West) and Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira). At the same time, the Deputy President said the Government was working on addressing the challenges facing miraa farmers. “This is a cash crop like any other that can transform our economy; we must rally behind the farmers and address the problems they undergo so as to up their revenues,” he said. He said the government had set aside Sh1 billion for the construction of roads in Maua, which would help accelerate the movement of goods and services in the region. Ichungwa said today’s politics is about the empowerment of ordinary Kenyans, devoid of tribalism and ethnicity. He dismissed those demonising the hustler movement, saying they were pro-status quo. “Our narrative is not poor versus the rich. It is about the empowerment of the poor; a movement of those who are enterprising against those who are entitled,” the Kikuyu MP explained. Kuria asked those opposed to Ruto's empowerment programmes to challenge him by initiating better projects instead of empty talk. " If Ruto's approach of giving wheelbarrows is wrong, give out cars instead."