The 2022 succession politics is giving senior politicians and their families sleepless nights. A little bird whispered to Corridors that a scheme to succeed President Kenyatta was threatening to divide an influential family in the country. Whereas some members of the family are rallying behind an individual they have reportedly termed as "experienced and ripe for the position," one female member is reportedly rooting for an individual who would be making his first stab at the top seat in 2022. It remains unclear how the matter will be sorted out as the politician is determined to run in 2022 with or without the family's support. Just how personal can lawmakers be when their turf is challenged? A vocal MP who ranked poorly in the recent poll by Infotrak has taken it personal with a colleague she claims was behind her poor showing. Her colleague was left in shock after she completely refused to acknowledge his greetings when they met at the airport over the weekend. As fate would have it, the two leaders were booked on adjacent seats for the trip to western part of the country. A mole who watched the drama unfolding told Corridors that the 45 minutes appeared like eternity to the female lawmaker who was engrossed on her phone throughout the trip. A Principal Secretary is a hated man by his juniors in the ministry because of his habit of asking confidential and sometimes embarrassing questions in public. During a recent tour of western Kenya to inspect development projects, the PS is said to have asked what a government agency had in its bank accounts. Officials who were being asked the question did not know how to respond. They were heard later saying such questions should have been asked in the boardroom and not in front of guests and visitors on site. A senior state officer is now a butt of jokes after it was reported that he picked Sh300,000 to make an endorsing statement about a certain institution. The high ranking individual has been ridiculed by a host of other learned professionals for cheapening his stature. The dons, who worked with the man, were overheard saying he could have done justice by demanding a fatter cheque. The monied chair of the institution is known to have his way around the who’s who in all facets and power echelons.