Kenyans have continued to give mixed reactions regarding the Building Bridges Initiative report, with the church not being left out. The Alliance of Registered Churches in Kenya has urged Kenyans to read and understand the report that was launched at Bomas of Kenya on Monday by President Uhuru Kenyatta, DP William Ruto and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. Speaking to the press in Bungoma town yesterday, ARCK chairman Bishop Samuel Welimo urged Kenyans to support BBI fully as its main point is peace and unity. He, however, added that they should not turn a blind eye to the proposals that may overburden them. The cleric said that as much as the church supports the document because of some good proposals like increased funds to the counties, it is afraid that wananchi may still be overburdened. He said that the church is for a lean Executive that cannot burden the taxpayer. "As we centre our minds on inclusivity, we should also think about reducing the tax burden on citizens by having an Executive that the country can comfortably handle," he said. The cleric called upon Raila and Ruto to bridge the political divide among their supporters who are splitting the country into two. "For the talks to be real and genuine, there should be no differences between Raila, the President and his deputy, as we are currently seeing. Let this [divide] be bridged," he said. The bishop asked Kenyans to be wary of the political class by ensuring that they read the BBI proposals on their own so they can make informed decisions in supporting or rejecting the document. Welimo urged the government to ensure the document is circulated to voters at the grassroots so they can read and make informed decisions. "It can only reach us down here if the government can send the document to area chiefs and their assistants for distribution," he said. The presiding bishop at the Hope of God Church said the documents can also be sent to clerics for ease of distribution and civic education. "The government must see that we have people assigned to the ground for civic education but not to use politicians," he said. He called for the appreciation of religious freedom of worship by including registration of churches. He added that the proposals on marriage should be left in the church ministers' hands.