Maize farmers in Rift Valley have welcomed President Uhuru Kenyatta's order to the National Cereals and Produce Board to buy maize and help them dry and store their harvests at affordable costs. They have, however, faulted the President’s directive that the NCPB buy maize at Sh2,500 per 90kg bag. They say the price is low and recommend at least Sh3,500 instead so they can profit. On Monday, Uhuru issued the directive to the Ministry of Agriculture to ensure the country has enough maize. But the farmers argue that the cost of producing maize is not less than Sh2,400 a bag, hence Sh3,500 should be the lowest price if they have to benefit from their toil. “We welcome the order by the President on the NCPB but would like to inform him that the cost of production is so high that if the NCPB offers Sh2,500 per bag, then we will be making huge losses,” said Thomas Kibet, a representative from Trans Nzoia. Kibet said the government should dialogue with farmers on the best way to handle maize purchase and other challenges faced in the sector. Most farmers in high-producing counties in the region are already harvesting. The President also directed that payments to genuine farmers and traders who supplied maize to the board be concluded by Friday this week. “I also direct that the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries Cooperative should engage with input suppliers, to ensure all inputs are available across the country at affordable prices within one month from this date,” he said. Also contained in the directive is that maize drying charges be reduced by 50 per cent from the current Sh40 per unit to Sh20. Uhuru said his decision was based on the fact that Covid-19 had posed challenges to agricultural-based livelihoods and food security. He said the national government will ensure driers are available in all maize-growing areas. "These driers will be community-based and will be managed by a group of farmers or cooperatives at the community level,” he said. The driers help farmers to store or sell their maize at the appropriate moisture content. “We appreciate the recognition of the challenges we face but need more dialogue so that we can comprehensively deal with the issues in the sector," Kenya Farmers Association director Kipkorir Menjo said. Maize production is expected to increase this year in most counties in the Rift Valley despite the effects of the Covid-19 crisis on agriculture. Farmers braved strict control measures when the outbreak started in March. Experts in the counties predict an average 15 per cent increase in production mainly due to quality fertilisers and good weather. Last year, maize production reduced to about 32 million bags countrywide from 42 million the previous year. However, this year agriculture officials in the counties estimate the harvests will exceed 35 million bags. “From the survey we've carried out in most areas, it's impressive that we expect very good harvests despite the challenges that farmers faced, especially the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Samwel Yego, the Uasin Gishu Agriculture executive. He said despite lack of subsidised fertilisers this year, farmers were still assisted to access quality fertiliser at fairly good prices. Uasin Gishu and Trans Nzoia are the major maize-growing counties in the country. The two counties are expected to produce about seven and 8.5 million bags respectively this year. Trans Nzoia Governor Patrick Khaemba says they had sustained support to farmers through the supply of fertiliser. “Through the support activities we implement as a county, our farmers have continued to increase production, which we still expect to go higher this year,” Khaemba said in Kitale. Farmers in the region are, however, worried about possible marketing challenges. Last year, farmers did not face marketing problems after the government banned maize importation in a move that stabilised prices at more than Sh3,000 per bag. 