Kitui chief of staff Chrispus Ileli is the latest casualty to fall in a mysterious jinx that has seen a number of top officials in Governor Charity Ngilu administration ship out or sacked. On Wednesday, Ileli was served with a letter of suspension from duty authored by county secretary Joshua Chepchieng. But Ileli on Thursday told the Star that his was a dismissal disguised as suspension. Early this year, Chepchieng dismissed Mineral Resources executive John Makau while two county executives Mary Nguli (Treasury), Rosaita Ngina (Health) as well as the Lands and Roads chief officer Christopher Syengo opted out of Ngilu’s government. Philip Mumo lost his Trade executive job over fake degree certificate. He was arrested by EACC officers over the same offence but denied the charges. His case is underway in a Kitui court. Lands executive Jacob Kakundi is fighting at Kitui law court not to be removed. The case is yet to be determined. The suspension of Ileli on what he terms as trumped-up and false allegation of being absent from duty since May this year will make Governor Ngilu’s top cream leaner. “The message here is clear that I have been sacked since they are telling me I am not entitled to salary since July,” he said. Ileli said in July he was publicly humiliated when his official car was withdrawn in the streets of Kitui town leaving him stranded. “Although they are lying that I have not been going to the office, the truth is that I have been going to the office in my personal car. The irony is that I was even served with the letter of suspension while I was in my office,” ileli told the Star on the phone. He said he has accepted his fate and moved on. “I will find something gainful to do sooner than later.” Ileli’s suspension letter dated October 7, 2020, from Chepchieng read: “ The governor has directed you be suspended from exercising the duties of your office with effect from July 1,2020,until advised otherwise.” “It has been brought to my attention by the office of the governor that you have been away from duty without permission since the month of May. I am further notified that you have not been in your place of work since July this year without leave, reasonable or lawful cause,” the letter further stated. In the letter, Chepchieng notified Ileli that during his indefinite suspension, he will get no salary but will be entitled to house allowance, medical allowance and medical insurance premium where applicable.