An 80-year-old widow from Chuka is seeking justice alleging that a chief magistrate made a bad ruling in her land case. In a letter dated June 19 addressed to Chief Justice David Maraga through the Judicial Service Commission, Margaret Muchiri says she feels aggrieved by the way chief magistrate John Njoroge of Chuka law courts handled her land case of 2011. Muchiri claims that in 2010, her husband complained that Eliphas Njaga, owner of land parcel No/Muthambi/ Gatua/435, had destroyed the boundaries of the adjacent road and encroached on his land parcel No/Muthambi/Gatua /911. The District Land Tribunal listened to the case, visited the scene and on November 4, 2010, ruled that the land registrar and district surveyor, with the help of the map, should fix the boundaries. No appeal was has ever been lodged. “The land registrar and surveyor fixed the boundaries in the presence of both parties and wrote a report confirming the same. The case was fully and professionally concluded,” Muchiri's letter reads. She claims that later after the death of her husband, the concluded case was sneaked back to court under circumstances she could not understand. “On December 11, 2018 magistrate Njoroge substituted me with my late husband without my knowledge or consent since no succession case has ever been done,” Muchiri says. The letter for summons was received by the assistant chief who gave a letter to village elder who left the documents with a small boy he found in her homestead. The widow adds that she went to court but was never called out or asked anything, only  to be told later that the verdict in her case had been passed in favour of a mysterious application dated 2014. She was not aware of it yet she was called for a hearing and not the ruling and she was never heard in the case. After raising some money through friends and family, Muchiri hired a lawyer who pleaded with the magistrate to review the judgment and accord her a hearing. She alleges that magistrate Njoroge accepted but later rejected the review on grounds that she attended court but did not plead. “I lodged an appeal in ELC under Justice PM Njoroge and to my surprise I only heard the case was read in presence of the other party and it was dismissed summarily. This raised a lot of suspicion of either collusion or conspiracy in the straightforward issue to deny me justice,” Muchiri states. She says she strongly feels condemned unheard because of the fear that if she is heard, the truth will come out. “I cry upon your intervention because it seems there is a conspiracy to snatch the family land so that I and my children are left destitute,” she says. The JSC, through director of legal services Isaac Wamaasa, responded to her complaint letter in a letter dated July 13, 2020, promising to take action. Edited by Henry Makori