Deputy President William Ruto has asked the criminal justice system not to allow to be used by politicians to engage in witch-hunt. Ruto said the fight against corruption must be fair and not skewed to demonise some leaders for vested political interests. Speaking at Kayiaba Grounds in Mathira Constituency, Nyeri County during a youths empowerment programme on Saturday the Deputy President challenged the Judiciary to ensure fairness and transparency while discharging its duties. Ruto said it was wrong for some individuals to use Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) and police to threaten and intimidate who oppose their views. “I want to ask the judicial justice system to refuse to be used by some individuals to advance a political course,” said Ruto. He added: “Those who want to engage in politics should come and compete with us instead of using the police, DCI and the courts to unfairly frustrate and intimidate some individuals because of their support for certain leaders.” Ruto made the remarks in reference to the ongoing investigations into corruption allegations against Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua. Ruto said Gachagua was being investigated because of his support for him. Gachagua and MPs Dindi Nyoro (Kiharu), Patrick Munene (Chuka Igamba’ngombe), Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), Rahab Mukami (Nyeri), Purity Ngirici (Kirinyaga), Kimani Ichungwa (Kikuyu), James Gakuya (Embakasi North), Silvanus Osoro (South Mugirango), GK Kariuki (Ndia), Rindikiri Mugambi (Buuri), Faith Gitau (Nyandarua), Victor Munyaka (Machakos Town), Alice Wahome (Kandara) and Kimani Ichungwa were present at the function. MP Gachagua said he was being frustrated by DCI because of his decision to work with the Deputy President. He said no amount of intimidation would make him change his political stand. “I am being frustrated and threatened by the DCI because of my political support for the Deputy President. I used money on several occasions to ensure President Kenyatta was elected and reelected but no one asked for the source of my money. But why now?’ asked Mr Gachagua. On the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI), Ruto called for a decent debate on proposed constitutional amendments with the inclusion of all Kenyans. “We are asking respectfully that we have a national conversation that will lead to a consensus as was said by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Do not force us, do not chest- thump and do not tell us nobody can stop reggae. If you use force, Kenyans will reject it,” he said. He said copies of the BBI report should first be availed to Kenyans for them to read and make their informed decision whether to support it or not. “We should not coerce Kenyans to support a document that they have not even read. Copies should be made available for them to carefully read before making their informed decisions,” said Ruto. And while addressing wananchi in Kiangai, Kagumo, Kagio and Kutus trading centres in Kirinyaga County, the Deputy President chided those opposed to changes on the document, saying they were only keen on benefiting from the funds to be used on a referendum besides creating division among Kenyans. “We have no problem with the BBI report but what we are asking is the inclusion of issues affecting ordinary Kenyans just like the way it has addressed the concerns of leaders through the proposed creation of positions of prime minister and two deputies,” said Ruto. The Deputy President said the minimum guaranteed returns for coffee; tea, milk, maize and sugarcane farmers were some of the issues that the report ought to have included. Ruto expressed concern that more focus has been given to creation of positions at the expense of implementing the Big Four Agenda of boosting manufacturing, housing, food security and healthcare. Gitau urged the BBI steering committee to avail the report to Kenyans in local dialects that they can well understand so that they can make informed decisions. “Not everyone can read BBI in English. They should translate the document into local languages so that ordinary Kenyans can read and well understand its content,” said Ms Gitau. Kuria and Nyoro said it’s the responsibility of all Kenyans to participate on matters to do with changing the Constitution.