Tension rose in Mai Mahiu, Naivasha, on Tuesday after two communities clashed over increased cases of cattle theft in the last one month. Irate farmers from Kigecha village seized over 70 cattle to protest the stealing of their livestock by suspected pastoralists. Armed police were dispatched to the area that in the past has recorded bloody clashes between members of the two communities. Following the unrest, over 100 farmers camped at Mai Mahiu police station to protest increased cattle rustling by the herders. One of the affected farmers, Simon Kuria, said that the problem started over the weekend when a group raided several homes in Longonot and Kigecha. They stole over 50 cattle and sheep but while escaping over 20 of the animals died after falling from a cliff. “We got incensed and in retaliation took their 72 cattle which we have since returned after police agreed to pursue the suspects,” he said. Naivasha OCPD Samuel Waweru was, however, quick to note that the impasse had been resolved after the herders received back their cattle that had been seized by the farmers. “We are following those involved in cases of cattle rustling in the area and it’s only a matter of time before we catch up with them,” he said. Meanwhile, Gilgil MP Martha Wangari has called for a lasting solution to the perennial clashes between herders and farmers in Kikopey near Gilgil town. She recalled an incident a week ago when members of the two communities clashed leaving one man dead, scores injured, property destroyed and tens of livestock slashed. Speaking during the burial of Francis Ng’ang’a who was killed during the skirmishes, Wangari regretted the number of people who had lost their lives in recent years. She said search for pasture and water had contributed to the perennial clashes, adding that this could be stopped if all communities respected private property. “It’s sad that we are burying a person who was very healthy and was killed by some suspects on the basis of pastures and it's time that police went for all those involved,” she said. Edited by Henry Makori