Public health workers have given the government seven days to ensure all officers who have stagnated in one job group for years are promoted based on individual officer qualifications. In a joint statement on Monday the workers said they will go on strike on October 29 if the government fails to act. The workers further demanded that promotions be effected based on years of stagnation. For instance, there are officers in four job groups who have stagnated for more than 12 years, those in three job groups who have stagnated for nine to 11 years, those in two job groups who have stagnated for six to eight years and those in one job group who have stagnated for three to six years. Kenya Union of Clinical Officers SG George Gibore accused the Health  ministry of promising to effect promotions over hte years, only to backtrack later and employ delay tactics that have seen officers stagnate in one job group up to over 15 years. “Failure to meet the above demands within the next seven working days ending midnight October 28,  all aggrieved health workers serving under the ministry of health shall commence without further notice beginning October 29,” Gibore said. He added: “The situation has become so bad that most of the discriminated professional heads of departments within the Ministry of Health are several job groups below their juniors in some counties they are supposed to lead.” The official noted that on May 4, the unions jointly issued a strike notice regarding the welfare of health workers on promotions and re-designations among other items. As a result, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe initiated conciliatory meetings on May 18 with representatives of all employers in the public health sector, including the Ministry of Health, adding that even though the unions showed goodwill and compliance with the law by suspending the strike, the discussions have remained unfruitful. “The joint unions further suspended the strike issued on August 20 on the basis that the ministry had committed to fast track promotions and re-designations among other issues of concern,” he said. They noted that the Nairobi Metropolitan Services among other counties have considered and initiated the process of promotions after the health ministry but have already finalised and promoted according to years of stagnation. Other unions include the Kenya Union of Nurses, the Kenya Health Professional Society, the Kenya Union of Medical Laboratory Officers and the Kenya Union of Nutritionists and Dietitians.