Deputy President William Ruto on Sunday said 2022 General Election  outcome will be decided by voters and not the chairman of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. Speaking in Embu town, Ruto said he has no problem with whoever leads the IEBC. He said the election result will be decided by Kenyans and not the chairman or the commissioners of the electoral agency. “Anyone can assume the leadership of the commission. We are ready and have confidence in our independent institutions,” Ruto said. He was addressing wananchi at in the company of more than 30 MPs after attending prayer services. Ruto said he did not care who became the chair or commissioners of IEBC. “They can fix any chairman or commissioner they want for the IEBC. But they must accept the outcome of the results,” the DP said. Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki said those against Ruto’s 2022 dreams can appoint whoever they prefer. “But they cannot stop an idea whose time has come. This is the time for the ordinary Kenyans to define their future by having a leadership that is pro-poor,” Kindiki said. Ruto asked leaders to put aside their personal interests and serve Kenyans. He said leaders should unite and confront challenges facing the people instead of dividing them along tribal lines. "We must eliminate politics that divide and create hatred and enmity among Kenyans. We must insist as a people that we want politics that unite and bring the people together and focus on the development of our nation," he said. Nominated MP Cecily Mbarire said it was time the country changed the conversation in favour of the needs of ordinary Kenyans. "Dr Ruto, continue to stand with the common man. We will support your hustler empowerment programme for the good of the majority of Kenyans," Mbarire said. Mbeere North MP Muriuki Njagagua lauded Ruto for what he called a bottom-top empowerment approach that he said will take care of Kenyans languishing in poverty. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria asked President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga to shed more light on claims by Embakasi East MP Babu Owino that there were plans to extend the President's term in office. He said Babu revealed the main objective of the Building Bridges Initiative was to make Uhuru the Prime Minister after the next elections. "I am waiting for Raila and the President to come out and refute these claims, otherwise, we will know what BBI stands for," Kuria said. Kandara MP Alice Wahome asked those pushing for constitutional amendments to also push for the prosecution of looters of Covid-19 funds. Kikuyu lawmaker Kiman Ichung'wa faulted those misusing state organs to frustrate leaders allied to Ruto. He said some civil servants were applying the law selectively. "When we tour the country to build churches we are told that we are politicking. When we visit Ruto in Karen or Sugoi we are also told that we are engaged in early campaigns," he said. "But surprisingly, when others go to Bondo it is not considered as politics or early campaigns." Ichung'wa's claims were supported by Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua who said Ruto's detractors had resorted to opposing his empowerment initiatives aimed at improving people's lives. "It has been decided that the Deputy President should be frustrated because he has made a big mistake of building churches and supporting the poor," Gachagua said.  Edited by P.O