City women in slums who have a valid driver's licence and are at least 24 years old have an opportunity to be sponsored for a matatu driver's course this month. According to the sponsors, Flone Initiative, the course will be offered at Kenya Bus Service driving school. To be eligible, the women need to have held a valid Class A or BCE driving licence for at least four years but are not currently employed as a driver. "Proof of validity is by the renewal of the licence. Candidate must be a member of the Women in Transport Association or must be willing to be a member," Flone Initiative said. The lobby added that candidates must have an identity card, a certificate of good conduct and be able to contribute 10 per cent or Sh2,100 for the course. "Candidates must be committed to working in the public service vehicle industry for one year after the training, undertaking a three-day first aid and two-day customer care course sponsored by Flone Initiative," their social media post reads. In May, a survey found that city women in the transport industry reported frequent headaches among other problems linked to loss of jobs, presence of children at home, lack of rent, fear of Covid-19 and food insecurity. They also lacked clarity of thought and had general anxiety. Fifty-two per cent of them stated they were no longer in employment after the owners of the vehicles they used pulled them off the roads. "It did not make economic sense for the owners to be operational, especially with the directive to maintain the carrying capacity at 60 per cent coupled with insurance charges and county fees," the survey revealed. Following the report, in July the organisation offered 150 women in transport training on how to prevent Covid-19 transmission through an SMS programme. The women had expressed concerns over the risk of contracting and passing coronavirus to family members and felt they would feel safer if they were indoors. However, because their jobs entail interacting with customers and handling money, it is not an option as they are relying on the money they make daily to buy food supplies. "Whereas sanitation measures have been put in place in most of the matatus, some passengers are reluctant to use sanitiser, saying that it is fake. "Additionally, there are so many sanitiser brands in the market and one cannot distinguish the genuine ones from the fake ones," the report adds.  Edited by Henry Makori