Last month, an online article claimed that boda boda riders in the country are at more risk of contracting prostate cancer. The article, published on ‘Tujipange’ website,  https://www.tujipange.com/2020/08/prostate-cancer-impotence-rampant-among-boda-boda-riders-kenyan-urologist/ on August 20 quoted a research conducted in 2008 by doctors from Japan, which indicated vibrations and the electromagnetic waves emanating from the bike in motion could lead to one contracting prostate cancer. The studies further explained that the men who rode motorcycles at least three times a week were seven times more susceptible to falling victims to the condition. Another article published in the Standard https://www.standardmedia.co.ke/lifestyle/article/2000179565/motorbike-riders-risk-impotence-and-cancer  claimed that most motorcycles put undue pressure on the perineum, the area between the anus and the scrotum, and restricted blood flow to the penis. According to the article, vibrations from the engine also cause a decrease in two growth hormones in the bladder and prostate, related to bladder relaxation. “Various types of extremely low-frequency electromagnetic field radiations are linked to health disorders including cancer. Millions of motorcycles generate excessive magnetic radiation up through the seat penetrating directly into the rider's groin and torso. The prostate is of major concern as it is one of the closest delicate glands invaded by the radiation,” read part of the article. But is the claim true? The Star’s fact-check desk reached out to Urologist Dr. Peter Mungai who dismissed the reports, indicating that there was no scientific evidence to back the claim. According to the doctor, prostate cancer has been in existence way before the introduction of motorcycles as a means of transportation. Mungai said though it has not been established what really causes the cancer, doctors know it begins when some cells in the prostate become abnormal. He said the mutations in the abnormal cells' DNA cause the cells to grow and divide more rapidly than normal cells do. The abnormal cells continue living when other cells would die. The accumulating abnormal cells form a tumor that can grow to invade nearby tissue. Some abnormal cells can also break off and spread (metastasize) to other parts of the body. Mungai said prostate cancer is mainly associated with family history. For instance, if men in your family have had prostate cancer, your risk may be increased. According to the doctor, if you have a family history of genes that increase the risk of breast cancer (BRCA1 or BRCA2) or a very strong family history of breast cancer, your risk of prostate cancer may be higher. We sought a second opinion from Nairobi's Cancer registry. Anne Korir in charge of the registry said there is no evidence that can link cancer to boda boda operation. According to her, the data collected is second hand from doctors who, while taking details from patients, do not include occupation. We established that prostate cancer is ranked at position 4 among deadly cancers. In position one is breast cancer with 5,985 patients, followed by cervix cancer with 5,250 patients, oesophagus with 4,380 and prostate with 2,864 patients. This is an equivalent of 12.5 per cent, 11 per cent, 9 per cent and 6 per cent respectively. Although prostate cancer is at position two among types of cancer in men, it has the highest number of new cases reported compared to oesophagus cancer which is ranked position one. According to data from the Motorcycle Assemblers Association of Kenya, by 2018, there were over 600,000 commercial motorcycles in the country. This number is expected to have risen to about one million this year. About 4.8 million people in Kenya rely on motorcycles for their daily operations. This story was produced by The Star in partnership with Code for Africa’s iLAB data journalism programme, with support from Deutsche Welle Akademie.