 Youths from the Western region have been urged to read the report of the Building Bridges Initiative and make informed decisions to avoid being misused by politicians. Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala on Sunday said it would be absurd for one to reject or support the report without reading and internalising its proposals. "We don't want a situation where you will be told the report has been read for you. We want the young people to read, understand and internalise the effects of the proposed changes on the supreme law before either supporting or rejecting the report," Malala said. The senator is the spokesperson of the Mulembe Youth Movement. He said the group will make public its stand on the report. The BBI report was officially unveiled by President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga at the Bomas of Kenya in Nairobi on Monday. The two leaders officially received the report from the BBI steering committee on Wednesday last week. The report recommends an expanded executive with the president, deputy president, prime minister and two deputies. It also wants counties revenue allocation increased from the current 15 per cent minimum to 35 per cent. Those proposals have already generated mixed reactions. But Malala called for patience, saying Kenyans should not hurriedly support or reject the report for political expediency. "We want to take our time and read the document because we know the constitutional making process must be for posterity," he said. Deputy President William Ruto on Sunday said the constitutional review process must be all-inclusive and not personalised. He said Kenyans should not be intimidated or coerced to either reject or back the process. On Sunday, Malala declared that the Mulembe Youth Movement was intact despite his reported removal as the spokesperson. He said that the launch of the Magharibi ODM Youth Movement led by MPs Imran Okoth and Babu Owino was welcome but should not be mistaken for the Mulembe Youth Movement. "As the overall leader of the Mulembe Youth Movement, I encourage other political parties within the Mulembe community to form their youth movement wings in Western and I am ready to work with all leaders,” Malala said. He said Mulembe youth should be left to plan their own political journey without interference from outsiders.  Edited by P.O