The High Court has found controversial Orthodox priest Fr John Pesa and a parent guilty of confining a student for close to two years at Holy Ghost Coptic Church for spiritual healing. The judge awarded the man, now 21 years old, Sh500,000 to be paid by the church, Fr Pesa and the father. At the time of his detention, the 21-year-old identified as SOO was a Form Four student at a mixed secondary school in Kisumu. His father, identified as WO, took him to the Coptic Church after the teachers in July 2017 noticed the student had reduced concentration. But the mother (RA), who sued the church, his father and Fr John Pesa told the court when she visited her son, she found him cuffed in heavy chains. She demanded his release but Fr Pesa and the boy’s father declined to release him. RA’s case was that the continued detention of SOO at the Coptic Church denied him freedom of movement and was a violation of his rights to health, education and freedom from torture, cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment. The court after considering the submissions by the mother, faulted Fr Pesa and the church for curtailing SOO’s freedom when he was placed in their custody from July 2017 to May 2019. As a result, SOO missed his studies and the final examination. Fr Pesa had conceded that SOO was taken to his church by the father for prayers in July 2017 and was in their custody until May 2019 when he was released. He asserted that there was no medical evidence to prove torture of SOO. But judge Tripsisa Cherere said the right to education cannot be compromised on the basis of one’s religious beliefs or the way one manifests those beliefs. The judge declared that the church, Fr Pesa and the father violated SOO’s rights when they confined him for 25 months. This, the court said, denied him his right of movement. “There is no doubt that SOO had his freedom of movement curtailed when he was in the custody of the church and Fr Pesa and could not move in and out of the facility as he wished,” the judge said. The judge said she was persuaded that the child’s father not only failed in his duty to take SOO to school but by removing him from school also breached his right to education. Section 30 of the Basic Education Act provides that every parent whose child is Kenyan or resides in Kenya shall ensure that the child attends regularly as a pupil at a school or such other institution as may be authorised and prescribed by state for purposes of mental, intellectual or social development of the child. During the hearing, the mother faulted the county government of Kisumu and Kisumu Health CEC for failing to reprimand the church and Fr Pesa and for failing to put in place appropriate measures to address the plight of persons suffering from mental illness. But the court held that the county and CEC Health provided medical support and facilities for treatment of persons who suffer from mental illness like SOO. “I find that the issues raised against the county government and the AG relating to health issues are in the circumstances of this petition not merited,” she said. Edited by Henry Makori