National Super League side Shabana narrowly edged Kenyan Premier League giants AFC Leopards 1-0 to lift Mashujaa Day Cup at a ran-soaked Gusii Stadium this afternoon. AFC dominated the game and kept Shabana goalkeeper Dennis Ayusa busy in the opening stages but he rose to the occasion throughout the match to eventually clinch the Man-of- the- Match award. The home side enjoyed the support from hundreds of fans who turned up for the encounter. This, it seems, paid off as the former household side took the lead in the 40th minute through Fred Nyakundi, who headed home youngster Ashif Obwaka’s cross past Benjamin Ochan in the Leopards' goal. Despite making several changes in the second half, Leopards failed to break Shabana’s defence lines which was marshaled by Wycliffe Nyangechi and Brian Magare. Speaking after the game, Shabana coach Vincent Nyaberi praised his charges, saying: “Our target was to win the game and I’m happy the boys gave their all. This win is a morale booster for the team ahead of new season. We want to get promoted to the top tier. It was a huge win for us and I want to thank the fans for turning up in large numbers." Leopards coach Antony Kimani conceded defeat saying Shabana was the better side. “It was a wakeup call for us. To be sincere, I didn’t expect Shabana to give us such a tough game. However, I don’t want to blame anybody for the loss because we just started training. Shabana gave us a good game and I hope they get promoted to the Kenyan Premier League in future,” said Kimani. He said he did not field any new signings because most of them are yet to train with the team. “We are going to Iten for 10 day for training and team building where we expect to have the entire team,” added the former international defender. Senate speaker Kenneth Lusaka was the chief guest during the entertaining game which was also attended by AFC Leopards chairman Dan Shikanda and Shabana vice chairman Nyandoro Kambi. Kambi, a Nairobi-based lawyer gave Shabana Sh20, 000 for the win. Shikanda and Lusaka congratulated Shabana for the win. Shikanda asked the government to support community teams like AFC Leopards, Gor Mahia and Shabana. Meanwhile, Shabana fans, who wrote to President Uhuru Kenyatta requesting for a bus for the cash-strapped team have asked Lusaka to make a follow up.