President Uhuru Kenyatta did not send Kikuyu elders to ODM leader Raila Odinga’s home in Bondo last Saturday, his cousin Kung’u Muigai has said. Muigai who is the patron of the Kikuyu Council of Elders said the President was not privy to the planning of the visit. He spoke on Friday during the funeral service for Peter Kihungi and Christopher Mungai who were killed last Sunday in chaos that erupted ahead of a visit by Deputy President William Ruto to AIPCA, Kenol town. Muigai warned Mount Kenya politicians against politics of hatred and called for an end to succession clamour. He said former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth and Jubilee vice-chairman David Murathe were behind the visit to Raila’s home. Others who attended the funeral service were Kiambu Governor James Nyoro, his predecessor William Kabogo and several Gema leaders. Kabogo said that the people of Mount Kenya are being targeted by other communities for their votes. “Bad politics is to blame for the death of these two boys and we won’t allow Mt Kenya votes to be auctioned to the highest bidder. Peter Kenneth and David Murathe weren’t sent by anyone to represent our community,“ he said. Gema cultural association national chairman Bishop Lawi Imathiu blamed Jubilee Party’s Tangatanga faction for dividing Mt Kenya region with politics of succession. “We won’t allow bad leadership to divide the community and politics of succession must stop,“ he said. Nyoro promised to give the families of the two youths jobs in the county to support their livelihoods. “Leaders should stop inciting electorates against each other,“ he said. Kikuyu Council of Elders national chair Samuel Maigua was recognised as their legitimate leader.  Wachira Kiago who led the delegation to Bondo, also lays claim to that title. He warned politicians of trying to incite the communities against each other, noting that politics of succession should stop as Uhuru is still in power. “We are committed to seeing these two bereaved families lives changed. Already, we have bought the land in Ithanga, Murang’ a worth Sh3 million and we will continue supporting them,” Maigua said. 