Kisumu county commissioner Josephine Ouko has directed that all remand prisoners be tested for Covid-19 before they are confined. The order follows a spike in the number of cases at Kodiaga Maximum Prison where 41 cases were recorded last week. The cases, all asymptomatic, were detected amongst remandees, one prison warder and his wife. Ouko said the testing will be carried out on all remandees taken to the facility to ensure that the disease does not spread. “We realised there was a lapse in enforcement of Covid-19 protocols at the prison, which is to blame for the spike in the number of cases,” she said. Speaking on Friday during the county Covid-19 status update, the commissioner cautioned residents against relaxing the Covid-19 measures. “Even though the President has reduced curfew hours, reopened bars amongst other measures, it is not an indication that the disease is contained. We are still recording new cases. Therefore we cannot afford to lower our guard,” she said. Ouko's sentiments were echoed by Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong’o who welcomed the partial reopening of the economy and asked residents to adhere to the Covid-19 regulations to contain the disease. “We welcome the President’s wise decision but wish to remind our people that the disease is still with us and we must continue to fight it.  We are not yet out of the woods,” he said. So far, he said, Kisumu has recorded 495 Covid-19 cases and eight deaths since the pandemic struck in March. Out of the total confirmed cases, 431 (87.1%) are from community transmissions. Some 114 cases are currently under home-based care. The governor directed all county and national government officials to ensure that safety regulations are followed. He announced a ban on disco matanga, feasting at funerals and enforcement of social distancing in public transport vehicles. “All gatherings in towns and villages must be held in strict accordance with the health guidelines. Wearing of masks in public offices and gatherings remains mandatory,” he said. Bodies removed from mortuaries, he said, must be buried within 48 hours and only a maximum of 200 people are allowed to attend such ceremonies. Edited by Henry Makori