ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi is set to start touring Western, Central and Nyanza regions to market his presidential bid ahead of the 2022 race. The former vice president has been meeting elected and former leaders from various parts of the country and officials of various professional groupings at his Mudavadi Centre in past months. Deputy party leader Ayub Savula on Friday said that Mudavadi is also set to make a major announcement on restructuring of the party and give it direction in the coming weeks. Mudavadi will be in Western on Saturday where he will attend the funeral for the late politician Dickson Katibi at Ekambuli primary in Khwisero sub-county. He will attend a church service at Shivembe ACK in Butere Constituency on Sunday and thereafter address supporters at stopovers on his way back. "The party leader is soon going to announce the restructuring programme that includes filling of the vacant positions including that of the secretary general," he said. In August then party secretary general Barrack Muluka and party candidate for the Kibra by elections Eliud Owalo quit the outfit in what was seen as a major blow to Mudavadi's presidential bid. Owalo has since joined Deputy President William Ruto's Tangatanga movement while Muluka said he is holding talks with major political outfits and leading politicians on his next move. Savula said that Mudavadi who is preparing to take another stab at the presidency has held several meetings with Central Kenya MPs on his agenda. "Mudavadi will soon meet President Uhuru Kenyatta to agree on working arrangements towards the presidency," he said on phone. Savula said that the party leader will tour Mt Kenya region and Coast in the coming fortnight. Mudavadi attended a church service in Kakamega two weeks ago and declared that he is done with supporting other presidential candidates. The former Deputy Prime Minister said that he was ready to face off with ODM leader Raila Odinga, DP Ruto and others in the race for the top job in 2022. "I have supported retired presidents Mwai Kibaki and the late Daniel Moi, I have supported Raila and current president Uhuru Kenyatta and I'm done with supporting others," he told a crowd in Kakamega town.