ODM leader Raila Odinga said Wednesday that Deputy President William Ruto's so-called hustler movement cannot deliver reforms to the country. Raila said that Ruto has been in government for seven years and has nothing to show as his contributions to better the lives of all Kenyans. He said Kenyans know those who can champion reforms in the country and the Ruto-led hustlers are masqueraders in the change movement. Speaking at Chungwa House, Raila said the deputy president has used his position to satisfy self-interest, only to throw crumbs to poor Kenyans in wheelbarrows and handcarts. “You promised Kenya 500,000 jobs and after seven years there is not a single job. Now you are telling them to take wheelbarrows. For us, we have solutions; we must teach our people how to overcome poverty,” Raila said. “We are the ones holding the flag of reforms in this country. There are some who are claiming that they have been part of this revolution but their history is known.” Raila said ODM will lead the third and final liberation that will change the mess the country has found itself in. The AU special envoy also reiterated the need to expand the national cake, saying despite the population growing nothing much has been done to serve everyone. “Our national cake is shrinking every day. At Independence, we had 8 million Kenyans but now we have 48 million people and the cake has not expanded.” The ODM leader spoke when he handed over of nomination certificates to the party candidates who will run in December by-elections in Msambweni Constituency, Kisumu North and Wundanyi/Mbale wards. Present at the event were ODM national chairman John Mbadi, director of campaigns Junet Mohamed and secretary for political affairs Opiyo Wandayi. Others were ODM secretary-general Edwin Sifuna, senators Stewart Madzayo (Kilifi), Mohamed Faki (Mombasa), Fred Outa (Kisumu) and Kwale MP Zuliekha Juma. The leaders were confident of winning the Msambweni seat left vacant following the death of Suleiman Dori. Mbadi said Ruto’s support for independent candidate Feisal Abdallah Bader has nothing to do with winning the seat but flexing his muscles with  Raila ahead of 2022. “We defeated them in Kibra by-elections and now we are going to meet them again in Msambweni,” Junet said. Mbadi said the party will organise peaceful campaigns in the areas until they clinch the seats on December 15. 