Nairobi MCAs have begun investigating how Hatari Security Services was hired by City Hall to guard schools and hospitals and the terms of their contract. The probe comes after guards contracted by security firm were suspended following an incident at Pumwani Maternity Hospital where a woman delivered outside the facility after being denied entry in the facility on September 13. The suspension of Hatari Services at Pumwani was to allow investigations to be carried out. Assembly Minority Whip Peter Imwatok said the terms of the contract between Hatari Services and the Nairobi administration are not well known. “In 2018, the county government contracted the Hatari Security Services Company to offer security services to county schools and hospitals across the county. However, the terms of the contract are not clear to the public,” he said on Thursday last week. As a result, the assembly's Justice and Legal Affairs committee has been asked to inquire about and report on the terms contract. They should provide a copy of the contract if they can find it. The report should also include when the contract expired, whether it was renewed, the amount paid to the Security firm per month from 2018 and the total amount annually for the period. “The committee should also report on whether the security firm continued to offer services after the expiry of the contract and for how long; and also reveal how much the firm was paid after the expiry of the contract and provide payment documentations,” Imwatok said. The committee is also expected to state who authorised payments to Hatari Security Services at the expiry of the contract and whether the amount paid to was budgeted for and approved by the assembly In a report submitted to the Senate Health committee, the Nairobi Metropolitan Service said City Hall has not provided any copies of the security firm contracts. NMS urged the Senate to independently direct the two parties to provide these documents for review and assist them to establish the authenticity of the contracts. 