Tanzania gained its independence from the colonial government in 1961, with the late President Julius Kambarage Nyerere, also called Mwalimu becoming its first president. Nyerere used Tanganyika African National Union (TANU) to climb to power, which was later rebranded to Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) in 1980. Since Nyerere’s time to date, CCM has been the only political party that has managed to produce presidents, with little competition from other parties. Ali Hassan Mwinyi of CCM took over from Nyerere in 1985 and served his 10 years in office. In 1995, Benjamin Mkapa became the fourth president of Tanzania, using the CCM party which also saw him ruling for ten years. Jakaya Kikwete became the fifth president in 2005 and handed over the power to the incumbent President John Pombe Magufuli in 2015. Magufuli faced fierce competition from Edward Lowassa of Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo (CHADEMA), who served as Tanzania Prime Minister from 2005-2008 under President Kikwete. The incumbent garnered 8,882,935 (58%) votes while his closest competitor Lowassa gained 6,072,848 votes (39.97 %). President Magufuli is again facing a big threat from the opposition chief Tundu Antiphas Mughwai Lissu. Lissu is a Tanzanian lawyer and became a Member of Parliament for Singida East Constituency in 2010. He is also the former President of Tanganyika Law Society and is seeking to become the sixth President of Tanzania under CHADEMA. Lissu returned to Tanzania in July after a long treatment abroad after an assassination attempt in September 2017. His car was sprayed with bullets during a parliamentary session break, sustaining multiple injuries by unknown assailants in the parking lot of his parliamentary residence in Dodoma. Lissu claimed that his assassination was an attempt from his political opponents to eliminate him. The opposition leader on Wednesday expressed fears of vote-rigging warning of 'mass democratic action' aimed at protecting the integrity of the election. "Voting reports indicate widespread irregularities in the form of preventing our polling agents from accessing polling stations. Stuffed ballot boxes seized in Kawe, Dar," Lissu tweeted. The US Ambassador to Tanzania Donald J. Wright on Tuesday urged the Tanzanian government to refrain from using its police officers to cause chaos hours into the start of elections. This comes hours after the main opposition party leader in Zanzibar Maalim Sharif was arrested as he tried to cast his vote on Tuesday morning.