Final year students on Monday began to troop back to their respective campuses for in person learning almost seven months after closure of all learning institutions. The institutions were allowed to reopen progressively, under strict conformity with the Health ministry guidelines on the prevention of Covid-19. A spotcheck by the Star showed that as of Monday, a number public universities had asked their final-year students report back in the course of this week. The Technical University of Kenya, the University of Nairobi, and Kenyatta University lead the pack with finalists reporting back on Monday. The institutions in a notice to students require those who are taking final exams to report this week before sitting their exams in a fortnight. Although each institution is independent to decide when students in subsequent years return to school, a consensus seems to have been reached on having first years as part of those to be first to report back. Kisii University, KU, UoN, Jkuat and Moi University ordered their first year students to report back next week. In a notice to students published in the local dallies, Academic and Student Affairs registrar at Kisii University announced that reopening will be in phases. New students will report back between October 13 and 16. They will, however, not be the first to report back. On October 8, the institution will receive part-time finalists, all year four science students, those in law and med school, a process that will go on for a fortnight. The new students are expected to be oriented and begin face-to-face learning on October 26. However, Joash Kerongo, the student registrar, said the institution will employ a hybrid of in-person and e-learning. Science students in Year 2 and 3 will report between October 21-30. Diploma, certificate, freshers and post-graduate students will resume their classes between November 2 and December 23. Last week, Education CS George Magoha announced that universities could begin reopening for in-person learning but if they comply with health guidelines and Covid-19 protocols. These requirements include monitoring of the body temperature for all learners and all other persons accessing the institutions, observance of high levels of hygiene, hand washing/use of sanitiser, and the adoption of innovative approaches to uphold the guidelines on physical and social distancing and the use of face masks/shields. “Pursuant to the presidential directives… the Ministry of Education will commence with the reopening of universities and tertiary institutions with effect from Monday October 5, 2020,” Magoha said. The CS also allowed university councils and their senates to decide and announce classroom learning for students in other academic years. Consideration was to be given to those undertaking science-based courses. Last week, Education ministry officials oversaw fumigation of learning institutions in readiness for reopening. Edited by EKibii