Amani National Congress has urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to create room for further consultation and consensus on the Building Bridges Initiative report. ANC said the “consultation may take the form of a constituent assembly”. The party said any future talks on the report could borrow from the Bomas model which produced a draft constitution in 2004. The document was rejected in a referendum in 2005. Some constitutional experts have touted the Bomas Draft as the best Constitution Kenya could have had because it was the most inclusive. More than 600 representatives from national groups and professions designed it, hence it is thought to have effectively spoken for Kenyans. ANC said the nine issues that form the basis of the constitutional review are real and pertinent. “The critical organs of ANC party have equally consulted widely on this document within the timeframe since its release. Our collective findings are that the document generally has positive provisions,” the party said of the report which was launched on Monday at the Bomas of Kenya. The party, however, said there are several provisions that require further consultation and consensus. It said the Senate, as the custodian of devolution, requires to be strengthened. “This has not been met by the proposed amendments in Articles 98, 218 & 218A,” said the report. The Musalia Mudavadi-led party noted that the proposed amendment in Article 172A to introduce the position of the Office of the Judiciary Ombudsman and his functions do not advance the independence of the Judiciary. “As ANC party, and as demanded by International Best Practice and by submissions made by other critical stakeholders in this arena, the holder of this office should be appointed by the Chief Justice and not the President.” The party said the elimination of public participation (through Article 152 and 155) in the vetting of appointees by the National Assembly to the Executive violates the principles of sovereignty of the people and destroys the democratic principles of checks and balances. It also criticised the proposed amendments to Article 230 to remove the power of statutory bodies and other stakeholders, including Cotu and Federation of Kenya Employers to nominate membership to the Salaries and Remuneration Commission. “Replacing them with Executive appointees defeats the very objective of inclusivity and Best International Labour Organisation practices.” ANC said removing the National Police Service Commission and replacing it with the National Police Council under Article 246, denies civilians representation. “The proposed amendment of Article 218 takes division of revenue away from the Senate yet the core function of the Senate is to protect devolution. ANC finds that the position of the Senate has been severely weakened.” According to the ANC, the 2010 Constitution does not provide what economic system Kenya should have. “The proposals introducing Article 11A do not clearly state the economic system but merely prescribe the characters which it ought to contain.” Key elements in the Bomas Draft of 2004 were promoting peace, national unity and integrity, establishing a free and democratic system of good governance. The document also entrenched constitutionalism, rule of law, human rights, and gender equity, recognising and demarcating divisions of responsibility among the Executive, Judiciary and Legislature. It also sought to strengthen national integration and unity, creating conditions conducive to a free exchange of ideas and ensuring full participation of people in the management of public affairs.  (edited by o. owino)