President Uhuru Kenyatta has commended the youth for being at the forefront in technological developments that are set to transform the country through the provision of local solutions. The President made his remarks on Friday during the Cabinet meeting at the Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS) Law Enforcement Academy in Manyani, Taita Taveta County. He spoke after a guided tour of an exhibition of innovations young Kenyan techies. The exhibition under the theme ‘For Kenya, By Kenyans’ featured geospatial, airborne geophysical, cyber, and national security industrialization projects. Uhuru said the government is not using foreign firms to deliver some of its key programs such as Huduma Namba and last year's population census exercise. “Until we have countries from all over Africa including Europe wanting to know how we managed to develop that system,” the President said in reference to the successful 2019 population census. He said the young people have for the first time in the region, do the mapping of the resources that exist in the country using only 10 per cent of Sh30 billion that a foreign company had asked to do the same job. “From water to gold to iron ore, we will know what our grounds hold. This is what will give us the opportunity to develop these resources for the best interest of 50 million Kenyans,” he said. On revenue collection, Uhuru said the geospatial work done by young people for the first time since 1972 will improve and enhance revenue collection as well as boost the government’s ability to deliver services efficiently. He also expressed confidence that through the brilliant young people’s innovations, the country is achieving its goal of digitising the economy, the society, and government to create a transparent system for more efficient delivery of services to Kenyans. “By this time next year when all our geospatial maps are done and we have finished the work of mapping the underground resources that Kenya has and when we continue to roll out the digital platforms, Kenya will never be the same again.” He continued that “Indeed, Kenya will be clearly set on the path of true transformation and transformation that is not imported but built and developed by our own young people. This is something that I am truly proud of.” Deputy President William Ruto said the multi-agency approach exhibited by the youth during their training demonstrates that with synergy no task is difficult to undertake. "The training and mentorship is key in ensuring that this tremendous potential is turned into reality," the Deputy President said. ICT CS Joe Mucheru lauded the president for successfully spearheading efforts to ensure Kenya remains economically competitive through various digital innovations. Earlier on, the president chaired an extra-ordinary session of Cabinet during which he received a report on the state of national security, nationhood, and territorial integrity. The report covered national cyber projects, geospatial surveys, and airborne geophysical projects. It also detailed the National Integrated Information Management System (NIIMS) Programme-Huduma Namba, and the National Security Industrialisation Project.