ODM leader Raila Odinga on Thursday inspected the construction of the Sh 350 million Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium in Kisumu. The stadium being constructed at Mamboleo Showground is expected to take six months to be completed. The stadium was supposed to be constructed within the city centre, but there was not enough space. “This project was relocated from the centre of the city which was not spacious enough to accommodate many people coming if there was a major sporting event within the city,” he said adding that this was part of many projects across the country. He said the projects once completed will provide various employment opportunities to the youths within the region and not tokenism which is not an answer to the youths unemployment. The project was commissioned two months ago by Sports CS Amina Mohammed. Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium at the Kisumu ASK grounds in Mamboleo and is expected to be completed mid-next year. The site was handed over to the contractors last week in an event presided over by Governor Anyang' Nyong'o and deputy secretary in the Ministry of Sports Josephine Onunga. The 30,000 capacity stadium will have facilities for football, rugby, tennis, hockey among other disciplines. “This was a seed planted in Nairobi and I am happy that the seed is now home. We are nurturing and developing it to become a fully grown plant whose fruits will be enjoyed by all of us, including our grandchildren,” Onunga said. She told the contractor to ensure that the project is delivered within the set timelines. “Go back to the drawing board and ensure that the project is complete within the set timelines. Do your part as the contractor and we will do ours to ensure that it becomes a success,” she said. She said a county development committee will be updating to Nairobi every day about the status of the project. Governor Nyong'o said the county was working on ways of improving sporting activities. “This is a milestone as Kisumu moves to position itself as a regional centre for sports excellence,” he said. He said Kisumu will have a sports academy. “The stadium will have changing rooms, a media centre, a boardroom, modern ablution block and ample parking,” he noted. The facility forms part of the government’s plans to promote sports across the country. “It’s a directive from President Uhuru Kenyatta that the works should commence immediately and have the facility ready for use in the next six months,” Amina said. “The government is keen to have sports facilities in various counties upgraded for use by sportsmen and women.”