A health worker at the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret on Tuesday succumbed to the Coronavirus disease. Hospital CEO Dr. Wilson Aruasa said the male medic who worked in the Occupational Therapy department succumbed at the hospital where he was undergoing treatment. “Sadly we have lost one staff who was critical and had comorbidity”, he said. He said they had no details on where he contracted the disease which is now spreading within the community in the region. “We did contact tracing as appropriate and all is under control. Let’s all observe the basic measures on control of the disease”,  Aruasa said. Aruasa said the hospital has 36 patients admitted at the moment while 65 others were under MTRH Home Based Isolation & Care (HBC). “All those admitted require high flow oxygen which they are receiving. Several others are under UG County Government Department of Health”, he said. This comes as the country reported 45,647 Covid-19 cases after 571 more people tested positive. This was from a sample of 3,963 tests that were conducted in 24 hrs. Of this number, 558 are Kenyans while 13 are foreigners, 361 being males and 210 females with the youngest being a one-year-old child and the oldest 90 years. According to a statement from the Ministry of Health, cumulative tests now stand at 627,781 since the first case was reported in March. The statement signed by Health CS Mutahi Kagwe further indicates that 84  patients are currently under the Intensive Care Unit out of whom 43 are on ventilators while 41 are on supplementary oxygen. Kagwe said there is a total of 1,059 people currently admitted to various health facilities across the country. Some other 2,562 patients are under home-based isolation and care. "Today 438 people have recovered from the disease out of who, 373 are from the Home-Based care program while 65 from various hospitals," Kagwe said. As a result, the total recoveries now stand at 32,522. Unfortunately, three more patients succumbed to the disease rising the total number of fatalities to 842. Uasin Gishu County health executive Evelyne Rotich said so far 20 people have died on Covid-19 in the county. The North Rift region counties are recording an upsurge in the number of cases in the last three weeks during which Huruma ward MCA Peter Chomba and three prominent traders are among those who have died in Eldoret town. Chomba will on Monday be laid to rest at the Kamkunji Cemetery after a public funeral service at the Huruma grounds to be done under strict Covid-19 control guidelines. Aruasa issued a further statement putting residents of the region on high alert following an upsurge in the Covid1-19 cases. “Following the resurgence of COVID infections, with unprecedented surge over the past few days, we wish to remind ourselves that prevention efforts remain key. Let’s all educate and sensitize members of the public to adhere to all laid down control measures”, he said. He urged residents to ensure they wear masks in public spaces and avoid removing the masks in any public place like restaurants or pubs. “Do not eat or drink with more than one person at a time. Everyone else not eating or drinking must be wearing a mask and keeping a distance of at least 3m  from whoever is eating or drinking. Better still, quit alcohol as much as possible”, Aruasa said. The CEO has urged residents to practice handwashing with running water and soap for at least 20 seconds, regularly. “Let’s also avoid public gatherings, practice strict physical and social distancing at all times and ensure all buildings, offices, premises have good air circulation. Open windows to allow free airflow”, he said. He also emphasized on the need for regular practice. “Everyone should take a walk for at least 30 minutes every day and enjoy free vitamin D from the sun. Vitamin D has been shown to prevent COVID infection and also to mitigate against severe infection”, he said.