Kenya International striker Festus Onyango has  warned teammates against complacency ahead of the regional African Cup of Nations  qualifiers in January here in Nairobi. Kenya are considered  pre-event favourites in the men's category that will feature Burundi, Libya, Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda and Seychelles. The women's category will feature giants Egypt, Burundi, Libya, Seychelles, Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda and hosts Kenya. The week-long round-robin tournament will be played between January 18-24. Onyango was Kenya's top scorer with four goals during the Olympic qualifiers in South Africa last year. The 24-year-old was the Most Valuable Player in the Kenya Hockey Union League in 2019 before ditching Strathmore Gladiators for Butali Warriors early this year. He was also the MVP for Strathmore in 2017 and 2019. He said players will have to stay focused and play to their strengths. "Kenya are favourites on paper but the game is played on the field. We will not rule out any team because we haven't seen them play for a while. However, our target is to make it to ACN." At the same time, the hawk-eyed striker outlined his targets. "My primary objective is to help the team qualify, but at individual level, I am hoping to top score with at least 10 goals during the event." Players have not had group training since March because of the coronavirus pandemic. Onyango is concerned about the fitness levels but urged the players to make up for the lost time in training as they await government green light on the resumption of sports. "Lockdown has been a big issue. We haven't played this year but I hope every player is work on that and will be in better shape," said Onyango, who  won the league with Gladiators in 2016. He said Kenya will have to contend with dismal preparation because it is highly unlikely that the team will play international friendlies before the competition. "Honestly we would have loved to play against proven opposition but as it is, we  have to use whatever we have to be ready."