A trail of communication between JKUAT vice-chancellor Wangui Ngumi and the university council has led to an investigation into financial dealings at the university. The council wrote to the Auditor General seeking a forensic audit of the proceeds of a tender to assemble devices used in the 2019 population census and free laptop for schools. Chairperson Gumato Yatani sought the audit before she was replaced a few weeks ago. Her position has since been taken up by Mahboub Mohamed. In a letter obtained by the Star, Gumato said the tender query was a sign of deeper financial concerns at the Juja-based facility. She said the council’s audit committee revealed that senior college staff awarded themselves payments irregularly from proceeds of the census. The council’s auditors, she wrote, found that Sh54 million was paid to 21 JKUAT Industrial Park and university staff as professional and administration fees. “I request urgent assistance to undertake a forensic audit into the financial management of the project undertaken by the Industrial Park, a wholly-owned  JKUAT company,” the letter to Auditor-General Nancy Gathungu reads. “This is triggered by the findings of the audit committee of the council that found that payments of Sh54 million were irregularly made to 21 staff members of the company and the university, including the VC and her top team out of the proceeds of a key project in which the Industrial Park had been commissioned to fabricate the devices used in the 2019 census. "The council is very concerned about this and wants to establish that this is not a symptom of a deeper problem of the Park and at the university.” The council resolved that the payments were “unprocedural, fraudulent and not above board” and demanded the beneficiaries refund the amount. Gumato said that despite a request for financial records on how the proceeds from the primary school laptops were used, no explanation had been provided. The council determines financial provisions for capital, expenditure, and reserve of the university. There were also questions why vouchers for the projects were not produced and why the staff found cash in their accounts without indication as to what the payment was. Prof Ngumi said the payments were made to the staff who contributed to the successful implementation of the census project. “The basis of the payments of the project management fees was upon identifying the roles that had been paid by the individual members towards realising the census project,” she told the council. She said in her September 29 response to the council that Sh8 million, part of the proceeds, was used to cover outstanding pension obligations. Sources at the university said a number of council members were not satisfied, prompting them to call in the office of the Auditor General. The council learned of the anomaly after a member of the management, who had received Sh796 million in her bank account, wrote to the bank questioning the source of the money. The officer also wrote to the management of JKUAT Industrial Park questioning why the money was deposited in her account. In the letter, the officer said: “As I tried to find out where the money came from, you (acting managing director) said it was an amount paid to the technical committee members of the JKUAT Industrial Park as part of their strenuous allowances as per approved budget. “I insisted I would not want to receive the money as you wanted me to without documentation or minutes as my faith and conscience would not allow.” JKUAT Industrial Park acting MD Kibet Lang’at, in response to the officer, said other census project team members received their payments in a similar fashion.