Former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth has cautioned politicians from outside Mt Kenya against perpetrating political violence in the region. Kenneth on Monday said they will not allow outside forces, working with local individuals, to cause a rift among residents in the name of politics. Condemning the violence that greeted Deputy President William Ruto’s visit to Murang’a on Sunday, the former presidential candidate said mayhem is unacceptable in modern times. He told the Star that it was painful that political fights have taken a turn for the worse, citing the death of two people in the chaos at Kenol. Scores of people were injured. Kenneth derided the National Cohesion and Integration Commission, calling it an embarrassment. “The NCIC has let Kenyans down by not dealing with these shenanigans. It must show its teeth in dealing with any incident that tips communities against each other on ethnic grounds,” the ex-Gatanga MP said. Violence rocked the DP’s visit to the region, chaos that spilled over to the AIPCA church where Ruto was to hold a fundraiser. Shops were looted during the fracas. “It was unfortunate that people who were going about their business fell victim to  political shenanigans,” Kenneth said. He called the violence shocking, adding that they have never had political violence in Murang’a county, despite the region producing great leaders. “It is a big shame that war can be brought to our grounds by outside forces in collaboration with local forces,” Kenneth said. “It cannot be that 2022 politics will be brought to Murang’a and to that extent Mt Kenya, where the community is geared against each other to the extent of losing lives.” Kenneth termed it wrong for politicians to unleash violence on worshippers and the people of Kenol as witnessed on Sunday. “Violence by whichever side of the political divide is completely unacceptable in the era we live in,” he said. Kenneth asked politicians to be civilised and have respect for the places and areas they visit to articulate their political ambitions. “There must be civility and respect for the places and areas they will proceed to. I condole with the families of those who lost their lives.” Various leaders asked the government to act warning that such incidents may spiral into a bigger wave of poll chaos. Edited by EKibii