There is an acute shortage of anti-snake venom in Embu, a section of leaders say. Newly-elected Kenya African National Union (Kanu) officials led by Ben Muriria said yesterday in Embu Town that Ishiara area is the hardest hit. He said victims of snakebites, which are often fatal if not treated quickly, have been finding it hard to get treatment at the public hospitals and dispensaries. Muriria said it’s disappointing for public hospitals to lack such drugs and asked the county government to always ensure drugs are available. “It’s sad that when a child is bitten by a snake while  playing about in the grass he cannot get treated with anti-venom owing to its unavailability. Public hospitals should be stocked with enough drugs to benefit the common man,” said Muriria. He spoke when he met party delegates to thank them for electing him and the other county officials into their new positions. He was accompanied by the branch executive including vice chairperson Florence Wanjiku, Patrick Muriithi (secretary), Amos Kibui (organising secretary), and Stephen Musyoka (treasurer). Health CEC Patrick Waganagwa did not respond to our call or text messages. The Kanu officials also vowed to reclaim land owned by the [arty, which former officials allegedly fraudulently sold-off to a local tycoon  three years ago. Muriria accused former officials of mismanaging the party due to selfish interests and allegedly sold-off the party’s prime property, which housed the party’s offices and several shops. Muriria and his team, who were elected by delegates a month ago, said they will fight to the bitter end through all means to ensure the party regains the prime property along Mama Ngina Street in Embu Town adjacent to the Cooperative Bank. Muriria said Kanu will fight for the improvement of prices of farm produce like tea, coffee, macadamia and milk. He lamented over big numbers of unemployed youth in the county and promised to push for employment. The officials vowed to revive the party, which they said was in the past years strong. Muriria said he will unite two factions of the party, facilitate mass recruitment of members to strengthen the party and sponsor civic, parliamentary, senate, woman-rep and gubernatorial candidates in the 2022 election. He said they support President Uhuru Kenyatta’s government, and the Building Bridges Initiative.