A vocal MP from Central region is courting a storm following a potentially explosive affair gone wrong. The second-term legislator who had fling with a banker is contemplating viable avenues to douse the flames after he ditched the lady. The trouble started when the man with an elevated status in Parliament (pictured) promised the lady a lofty position in his future gubernatorial secretariat, only to reject her after she quit her bank job. The lady is now threatening to expose the man's dishonourable side to the world - it could potentially wreck his marriage, to say the least. One of the country’s constitutional commissions is in disarray. Why? A man claiming to be an adviser to the chairman is reportedly causing havoc. What has shocked the staff in the entity is that the guy has the audacity to sit in interview panels without the permission or knowledge of the CEO or chairman. A small bird whispers to Corridors that he has been heard bragging that he will be the next CEO of the body. The avian gossip says the character whose background is not known joined the agency in May and is not on the payroll just yet. Worried by the turn of events, the staff now wants the EACC to step in and investigate the matter with a view to restoring the commission's seemingly diminishing lustre. What was an influential businessman doing in the French capital weeks before President Uhuru Kenyatta’s visit? Corridors of Power has overheard bits and pieces about how the man, believed to be a fixer-in-chief, found his way to Paris ahead of the signing of the roads construction deal. It’s not clear if his mission had something to do with the President’s visit. However, there are murmurs from another European country that unsuccessfully made a pitch for the mega highway construction job. Our little bird will keep tabs on the developments and unravel the reasons for the curious visit. Is one of the Cabinet Secretaries planning to voluntarily quit? Sources said the CS, one of the oldest in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Cabinet, has offered to take a rest. So why has Uhuru delayed the Cabinet reshuffle? Well, sources whisper to Corridors that the head of state is waiting to see whether Sports CS Amina Mohamed succeeds in her bid to become the World Trade Organization's director general. After this, Uhuru will forge his final Cabinet up to 2022. The verdict on Amina is said to be critical to allow the President make decisions on gender balance, coming at a time when the Judiciary seems adamant to have the two-thirds gender rule enacted and enforced.