Maize farmers have complained that importing maize will flood the markets and cause prices to drop when they are harvesting their crop. Milk imports already have caused a drop in producer prices, causing panic among farmers. “We are asking the government not to allow in any maize imports as it did last year. This will enable the farmers to enjoy better prices of more than Sh3,000 per bag," Kenya Farmers Association director Kipkorir Menjo said. Farmers complained about President Uhuru Kenyatta's directive for NCPB to open its depots and buy maize at Sh2,500 per 90kg bag, which they complain is too low and will cause them to lose money. The farmers want the President to increase the price because the cost of production has increased along with costs of drying and transport. Menjo said they want the government to increase the prices and halt any imports. “Last year there were no imports of maize and the farmers enjoyed good prices even though the NCPB did not purchase any maize,” farmer Thomas Korogoren said. The farmers spoke as MCAs at the Uasin Gishu Assembly passed a motion asking the government to stop milk imports that hurt the dairy sector. Tulwet MCA Julius Songok tabled the motion that also calls for counties to meet dairy sector stakeholders over what it called the "milk prices crisis". “In many areas, milk prices have dropped to as low as Sh23 per litre from way above Sh30 and this is likely to impact very negatively on the dairy sector," Songok said. Maize production is expected to increase this year in most counties in the Rift Valley despite the Covid-19 pandemic. Farmers endured strict control measures when the outbreak started in March. Experts predict an average 15 per cent increase in production mainly due to the use of quality fertilisers and good weather. Countrywide, maize production last year declined to 32 million bags from 42 million the previous year. However, this year agriculture officials estimate the harvest will exceed 35 million bags. “From our survey in most areas, it's impressive that we expect very good harvests despite the challenges especially Covid-19,” Samwel Yego, the Uasin Gishu Agriculture executive, said. He said despite lack of subsidised fertiliser this year, farmers were still assisted to buy quality fertiliser at fairly good prices. Uasin Gishu and Trans Nzoia are Kenya's highest maize-producing counties. The two counties are expected to produce seven million and 8.5 million bags, respectively. Trans Nzoia Governor Patrick Khaemba said the county had supported farmers through supply of fertiliser to increase production. “Through our support, our farmers have continued to increase production, which we still expect to go higher this year,” Khaemba said in Kitale. The farmers are worried, however, about marketing problems. The government will introduce the Warehouse Receipt System this month. It will enable farmers to store their produce in warehouses and be issued with receipts as proof of ownership. They can use the receipts as collateral and borrow against them. “We have urged the government to move quickly and sensitise the farmers on the new system before it's rolled out,” Menjo said.  Under WRS. the farmers will store the maize as they wait for good prices before selling their produce. The receipts will enable farmers to access any support they may require including loans and fertiliser. (Edited by V. Graham)