Kenyans have been urged to read and fully understand the BBI report so they can make informed decisions. Kirinyaga clerics on Tuesday urged politicians to exercise caution and allow wananchi to decide on their own. Their remarks came a day after the BBI report was unveiled at the Bomas of Kenya, Nairobi. Speaking to the Star on the phone, the religious leaders said politicians must stop BBI-related sentiments that might cause divisions. They were ACK Bishop Joseph Kibucwa, Kirinyaga county Imam Idd Abdi and chairperson of the Kirinyaga county forum Francis Wanderi. However, Bishop Kibucwa faulted the urge to amend the Constitution, saying the existing laws to a larger extent address Kenya’s needs in all spheres. "What lacks is the political goodwill to implement what is already in the 2010 Constitution. I don’t think the BBI carries a cure for our political and economic problems and more so if the political players involved in the 2010 constitutional making process are the same players spearheading the BBI campaigns," he said. He called for the use of alternative methods to pass some of the proposals instead of going the referendum route. Kibucwa cast doubt on the unity of the country’s leadership, saying the jeers that characterised DP William Ruto's speech set the tone for a heavy contestation in days to come. Ruto expressed his reservations about some of the proposals in the BBI report. Kibucwa advises the pro-BBI team to extend an olive branch to those who have raised concerns over some clauses so Kenyans can walk in unity during this defining constitutional moment. Similar sentiments were shared by Abdi and Wanderi, who reiterated the importance of unity among leaders and Kenyans. "Let them have a sitting that seeks to iron out all the pressing issues that have been put forth and that which is currently making BBI unimpressive to some. We need to have harmony amongst our people, and leaders should lead by example,” Abdi said, adding that wananchi should largely be involved in decision making on whether or not it's suitable to hold a referendum. "By the end of this whole process, Wanjiku is the final decision maker and therefore should be allowed to dictate whether or not the BBI should or not be taken through a referendum. That can easily be achieved through public participation. Let Mwananchi be the voice of reason in this conversation." Giving voice to the emerging views, the Kirinyaga Clergy Forum, which consists of all Pentecostal churches within the county, appealed to the government to roll out civic education so Kenyans are enlightened on the details of the report. The forum, through chairman Francis Wanderi, also urged politicians to avoid using symbolisms while referring to the BBI and instead advocate that the masses be guided appropriately so they have the correct interpretation of the document.