ODM party nominations for Kisumu North Ward were on Saturday  marred by hitches as names of many voters were missing from the party register. This is after the party opted to use the 2013 register instead of the IEBC list as the election board had assured the candidates. ODM aspirants are Thomas Kotieno, former councillor Bernard Muga, fomer MCA Carolyne Owen, Ramadhan Bilali and Samuel Dede. Voters expressed disappointment, alleging a plot to rig out popular candidate Kotieno in favour of Muga. At Bar Union primary school polling station, supporters of Kotieno demanded free, fair and credible nominations. "We are tired of being suppressed by ODM party every election period. We need to be allowed to nominate and elect leaders of our choice," Mary Atieno, a voter said. She questioned why the party decided to use the 2013 register instead of the IEBC one. "It is a clear indication of shambolic primaries. Our names are missing from the register being used," Atieno said. She said the shambolic nomination will lead to a massive backlash in the party. Joshua Ochieng said they will elect a candidate of the choice irrespective of party affiliation on December 15. At Ogada primary school polling station, the situation was the same with voters dissatisfied with the nomination exercise. Joash Owuor said his name was missing yet he's been voting at the polling station. Kotieno expressed disappointment with the manner in which the nomination was being conducted. He said many voters had their names missing without any clear information whether they will vote. "Yesterday (Friday) we were told that we will use the IEBC register but later they said they will use the ODM list and those whose names will be missing will use that of the IEBC to vote," he said. Kotieno said his name was missing in the ODM register being used and he was assured that it was being corrected. He votes at Bar Union primary school polling station. "My name was appearing in Nyalenda B Ward in the ODM list yet in the IEBC register he votes in Kisumu North Ward," Kotieno said. ODM National Elections Board chair person Catherine Muma said there has been no violence reported since the exercise started. She denied allegations that the party already had a candidate of their choice saying it is voters who will decide on the winner. Muma noted that there were delays in two polling centres after the presiding officers did not turn up. "We had to do a quick recruitment and the voting started late," the chair said. The voting kicked off at 6am and will end at 5pm. Muma clarified that they are using the ODM list which was cross checked with the IEBC one. "Those whose names are missing should be patient as they will vote. If your name is missing in one polling centre you should go to another one to check," she said. Muga voted at 10am at Ogada polling centre. He said some people had their names missing. "He called for peaceful voting. The phone of the returning officer John Keboi was off for better part of the morning exercise and could not be reached. Muma said Keboi's phone had been disabled but he was safe.