The Senate plans to review its programme once sittings resume next week over the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the country. Speaker Kenneth Lusaka said they will make sitting arrangements to only accommodate a certain number of legislators in the House. Others will follow proceedings virtually. “The Senate was meant to resume full sittings next week, but with an increase in the number of positive cases, we shall have to review this,” he said. Lusaka was speaking to the press at Enashipai Spa in Naivasha on Thursday during a Senate Liaison Committee meeting. On the BBI report, Lusaka said the Senate Committee on Justice and Legal is going through the document before the House takes a position. “Senate made its recommendations and the legal committee is now studying the document before we make our position on Friday,” he said. Lusaka, however, lauded the proposal to increase funding to counties by 35 per cent, adding that the Senate should be ready to oversight the use of the funds. He, however, took issue with the Executive for ignoring Senate summons to address critical issues. “We have raised the issue with the Cabinet committee that is headed by CS Fred Matiang'i who has agreed to make sure they respond to the summons,” he said. Leader of Majority in the Senate Samuel Pogishio warned of dire consequences for those who ignore summonses. He said state agencies were notorious for sending junior officers who could not make decisions, a move that was hurting the work of the Senate. “We want to issue a notice to Cabinet secretaries and senior officers of government agencies that they are duty-bound to respect Senate summonses,” he said. Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja said differences between senators during discussions on revenue allocation had been sorted and the Senate is now united. He said although the debate had split the House down the middle, the amount to counties was increased from Sh316 billion to Sh370 billion. “The differences created at the height of the revenue sharing bill have been sorted and the counties are the winners,” he said. Edited by A.N