The number of Kenyans who have succumbed to Covid-19 now stands at 777 after the Health Ministry announced 11 more deaths on Monday. The government directed school heads to keep records of learners with preexisting medical conditions in the wake of phased reopening of schools. Already, plans have been put in place to ensure cases of fever among learners are reported for swift action, with all learning institutions having been linked to a health facility. “I urge principals and teachers to compile the list of learners with preexisting conditions such as asthma so that necessary attention can be given to them,” Education CS George Magoha said. The ministries of Education and Health have been working together to fumigate and disinfect learning institutions in readiness for reopening. In a statement on Monday, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe confirmed that 73 more people tested positive for the virus from a sample of 2,001, raising the caseload in the country to 41,619. “We have developed jointly the specifications for masks because some of the learners are young and ordinary masks may not be able to fit them,” Health director general Patrick Amoth said. “We will continue to do joint surveillance in the process of learning to ensure if there are any cases we will quickly pick them and act appropriately.” The tests conducted so far stand at 593,199. From the new cases, 46 were men and 27 women aged between 17 years and 77 years. The CS said 97 people had recovered from the virus on Monday, bringing the total recoveries to 31,097. Sixty-six of the cases were discharged from hospitals while 31 were from home. Nairobi recorded 34 new cases followed by Kilifi with 18, Mombasa with 11, Busia with four, Taita Taveta with two, while Kirinyaga, Kiambu, Meru and Uasin Gishu recorded one case each. Three of the cases from Nairobi came from Kibra and Westlands, while Dagoretti North, Dagoretti South, Embakasi Central, Embakasi East, Embakasi North, Embakasi South, Embakasi West, Kamukunji, Lang’ata, Makadara, Mathare, Ruaraka, Roysambu and Starehe recorded two cases each. In Kilifi, the 18 cases were from Magarini 12, Malindi four and Kilifi South two. Three of the cases from Busia were from Matayos and one from Teso North while the two cases from Taita Taveta were from Voi. Edited by Henry Makori