The fight pitting Law Society of Kenya president Nelson Havi against CEO Mercy Wambua has taken an ugly turn amid a call to the ICT office to delete the latter’s official email accounts. Havi on Wednesday directed ICT officer Geoffrey Karani to delete the accounts, saying Wambua's contract had expired. Havi claimed that the CEO’s contract had ended in March. The LSK boss also sought control of the society’s social media platforms in his call to the IT team to surrender credentials of the said pages. Havi asked Karani to confirm the identities of all staff members who have access and control of email addresses and the official LSK Twitter handle. His ire arose from a communication made through the society’s pages of a resolution by nine members of the LSK council to reinstate Wambua. The group differed with the society’s boss on the decision to sack the CEO over gross misconduct and incompetence. Council members Caroline Mutheu, Roselyn Odede, Benhard Ngetich, Ndinda Kanyiri, George Omwansa, Aluso Ingati, Faith Odhiambo, Beth Mishoma and Riziki Emukule voted to retain the CEO. The council chaired by Havi has 13 members. “Upon deliberations, the council by majority resolved that the CEO, who has been on suspension since September 15, should return to work and resume her duties forthwith,” the team, led by Ngetich, said. Havi deleted the statement, which was posted on LSK's Twitter page, and posted his version of the decision to the effect of sacking the CEO. However, the LSK president claimed his post was deleted and the resolution by the nine council members reposted. He wants the ICT officer to confirm “which staff and on whose authority the purported resolution was emailed to members and posted on Twitter”. “Confirm which staff and on whose authority was the president’s post deleted from the Twitter handle and on whose authority the president was removed as an administrator of the official Twitter handle,” the letter reads. “Finally, do confirm whether you are the sole person with the full control of the society’s ICT infrastructure, including server, ERP system and its credentials.” Wambua has maintained that she is rightfully in office. “Whatever you have seen is the decision of the president. He has no powers to veto the council,” she said on the phone. While clearing her, the nine-member team said they had observed with a lot of "displeasure" the continued attempt by Havi to disrespect the council. They said they voted against the removal of the CEO after finding out that the allegations did not amount to misconduct. “It is important for members to note that the president unlawfully and unjustifiably walked out on the council members alleging that he was going to write a judgement alone and deliver the same on Monday,” the majority decision reads. The team said it was aware of a statement made by Havi insinuating that some of them had been compromised and that he had evidence to prove it. “We condemn in the strongest terms possible the action of the president, his attempts to change a decision of the council and disparaging the character of council members.” They assured the LSK membership and the general public that the issue of the CEO has been resolved. Havi earlier accused the majority group of staging a coup by rejecting the decision to remove Wambua. The LSK boss claimed the group’s action mirrored concerns of deep-seated external interest in the affairs of the society. “This development happening on the same day that we had lamented the capture of our representatives to the JSC is of great concern,” Havi said. Havi said in the last seven months, the office has seen massive corruption, inefficiency and cronyism in the secretariat. Wambua had faced 17 charges, including alleged failure to submit reports to the president, implement council resolutions, keep proper records of society’s affairs, and communication of council and releasing the same to the media.