ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has asked politicians to tone down early 2022 campaigns. Mudavadi said politicians should focus on supporting government's efforts to revive the economy. “All energy should be driven towards the revival of the economy since the pandemic has hit the country hard and destabilised many investments, businesses and livelihoods at large,” he stated. Mudavadi's remarks were similar to those made by President Uhuru Kenyatta on Saturday.  The President told the leadership of Parliament at State House to go easy on succession campaigns. Addressing  orshippers at PCEA Church in Gilgil town, Nakuru county, on Sunday, Mudavadi said the country needs unity of purpose among its leadership to address the current challenges. “We want a peaceful nation. We have been emphasising that political temperatures be toned down because we are having an economic crisis and public debts are haunting us. If we don’t focus on how we will revive the economy, we will be in trouble as a country,” Mudavadi said. Mudavadi further called on Kenyans to reject political leaders who are spreading messages of hate and ethnic exceptionalism. He advised leaders in top state positions to exercise utmost caution when delivering their messages to Kenyans to avoid dividing the country. The ANC leader reminded Kenyans of the 2007-2008 political unrest that led to chaos and loss of lives. “For 42 days we camped at Serena [hotel] under the leadership of Kofi Annan and Madam Graca Machel. I led the ODM side while Martha Karua led the PNU side. It was not easy and we should never get to that state of affairs again. We need to preach politics of peace, harmony, stability and togetherness as a nation,” he added. Mudavadi added that the fight against corruption should be intensified and warned Kenyans about making bad choices when electing their leaders. “Your choices matter. And choices have consequences. Why do you vote in someone knowing that he is corrupt? Why do you vote in somebody knowing that he is propelling tribal hatred? Why do you vote in somebody knowing that he is a thief? We need to make choices that will help us,” he said. Mudavadi was accompanied by MPs Ayub Savula (Lugari), Sakwa Bunyasi (Nambale), Alfred Agoi (Sabatia), Beatrice Adagala (Vihiga county) and ANC chair Kelvin Lunani, among other leaders. The legislators called on Kenyans to vote for Mudavadi in 2022, saying he is a leader who has shown he has the interests of Kenyans at heart. They also called on Kenyans to await the BBI report, read it carefully when it is released and then make an informed judgement.  