There seems to be vicious infighting at a law faculty in Nairobi. Sources whisper to Corridors of  Power that the battle is about succession, who will become the next dean. There are claims of behind-the-scenes plans to have some strong candidates maligned, threatened and eventually disqualified. Some insiders are alleging tribalism in the whole game plan. There are also concerns there has been no ethnic diversity in the leadership of the school for more than eight years. *** A top police officer has reached out to a friendly officer attached to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s office on Harambee Avenue to help him escape the dragnet of an anti-graft agency. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission is said have flagged huge flows of money to the officer’s bank account, which are not commensurate with his salary. The EACC is in overdrive to bring to bring to book public servants whose lifestyles or wealth are not commensurate with their incomes. A mole has disclosed that the money is from kicksbacks he gets from individuals escaping Kenya Revenue Authority dragnets for illegal importation of goods through JKIA. *** A speaker in a county in the North Rift is said to have fallen out with MCAs over the manner in which business is handled in the assembly. Ward reps are said to be burning the midnight oil plotting how the official could be removed from office. They accuse the speaker of irregularly suspending county assembly employees and replacing them with sycophants. They also accuse the speaker of making illogical transfers of staff. A case in point, they say, is the transferr of a procurement officer who was made a librarian. The ward reps have since called on the anti-graft agency to investigate irregular awarding of tenders at the speaker's office. *** Differences between a governor in western Kenya and one of his CECs is said to be scaring away donors of a mega project in the devolved unit. The CEC is said to have protested to the donors that the governor has been sidelining him in the project yet it falls within his docket. A little bird whispers to Corridors that the CEC has been telling those close to him that the governor is sidelining him because he might not cooperate in demanding kickbacks from contractors who will be awarded lucrative tenders for the infrastructural projects in the county. The CEC now plans to tell the donors to take their donation to a nearby county.