Kenya Volleyball Federation president Waithaka Kioni is confident that newly-elected African Volleyball Confederation president Hajij Bouchra will improve standards of the game in Africa. Bouchra, the Royal Moroccan Volleyball Federation president, trounced immediate former president Amr Elwani by 42-12 votes in a virtual election held on Saturday. "Volleyball in Africa will take a new trajectory because the new president is progressive and has the support from her government. She has a clear vision and mission for the continent," Kioni said. Kioni, who was also re-elected as the CAVB Zone V Vice Chair on the same day, bemoaned the lack of trust that many stakeholders had developed in Elwani's regime. "Boujra's election is a fresh start. We want to bring more transparency to CAVB by developing new modes of governance. The lack of transparency in the previous regime caused the International Volleyball Federation to stop sending funds to CAVB as they used to," he said. He spoke of plans to empower national volleyball teams to the level of their counterparts in developed countries. "Our plan is to increase financial and infrastructural support for all national teams beginning from the lower age groups to the senior teams. Whereas volleyball clubs may be able to access support, many national teams have been affected and that's why we will focus on them," Kioni said. However, he asked for patience and support from all stakeholders if CAVB's vision for national teams is to materialise. "This is something that will take time before we can reach the level of the volleyball powerhouses. Of course, we need financial support and better infrastructure like more indoor volleyball courts," Kioni said. He also asked stakeholders to support men's volleyball teams in Kenya to enable them match their female counterparts. "We have some very talented male volleyballers who can excel with the right support and infrastructure in place. Women's teams have benefitted from more funding from corporate bodies and the government compared to the men's teams," he said. Kioni was elected as KVF president in 2018 for a final four-year term. He is also the chef-de-mission of Team Kenya to the rescheduled 2020 Tokyo Olympics. He will be hoping that the national women's volleyball team — Malkia Strikers — will do him proud with a superb performance at the quadrennial showpiece.