One in every four under-fives is not legally registered at birth. Even when they are registered, they may not have proof of registration in the form of birth certificates, according to a survey commissioned by the United Nations Children’s Fund. The report attributes the low registration levels to a lack of resources and investment in accurate and comprehensive civil registration systems. Further, there are barriers in accessing birth registration services, along with policy, regulatory and institutional obstacles exacerbated by Covid-19 that has seen services slowdown in civil registries. At the onset of the pandemic, the government scaled down services in all the Huduma centres from 112 services to only two: collection of IDs and birth certificates. That means that Kenyans were unable to physically access critical and highly sought after services including application for birth certificates. The UN agency has also highlighted a mother’s education level as a factor influencing the likelihood of birth registration. “Globally, about 80 per cent of children under age five whose mothers have at least a secondary education have their births registered compared to just 60 per cent of children whose mothers have no education,” the report says. In Kenya, according to the Ministry of Education, 3,463,719 children in primary school did not have birth certificates by January. Another 68,265 students in secondary schools lacked the crucial documents in the 47 counties. “We recognise that children whose births are not registered and who lack proof of their age are more vulnerable to marginalisation, discrimination, abuse, and associated protection risks such as child marriage, child labour, forced recruitment to armed groups and forces and trafficking,” Unicef says. Unicef urges governments to include birth registration services in the Covid-19 recovery packages to strengthen primary healthcare. It recommends that birth registration goes digital to improve accessibility and availability of services in the era of Covid-19 and beyond. Edited by Henry Makori