Kenyans have been urged to support the Building Bridges Initiative proposals because they capture their development aspirations. Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati and his Kisumu counterpart Anyang' Nyong'o praised the document as one that will promote grassroots development and cure perennial post-election violence. The BBI report increases funds allocation to the devolved units from at least 15 per cent to at least 35 per cent. Five per cent of the money set aside for the counties will go to the wards. "I'm very happy with this document. It will enrich the counties through increased revenue allocation Wards will be the greatest beneficiaries because of the ward development fund," he said. He urged residents to read the document and understand its content, terming it people-friendly. Similar sentiments were shared by Governor Nyong'o, who lauded the document, saying it will end post-election violence that rocks the country every election years. "We have suffered as a country due to lack of a constitution that speaks on how to end the perennial post-election chaos. The BBI is the best medicine to deal with such vice," he said. The duo spoke in Khaoya village, Kanduyi constituency, Bungoma, at the burial of Hellen Ngome, the wife of Bungoma Deputy Governor Ngome Kibanani. Also present was Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka, who called on Kenyans to stop turning the BBI report a political contest. He said making the report a political contest will sow discord. "Kenyans should read the document containing the proposed constitutional changes keenly, and make their own decision on whether they support it or not," Lusaka said. "It's only through according members of the public adequate time to read and understand the document that they will make informed decisions." Others in attendance were MPs Wafula Wamunyinyi (Kanduyi), Eseli Simiyu (Tongaren), Dan Wanyama (Webuye West), Mwambu Mabonga (Bumula) and Janet Nangabo (Trans Nzoia Woman Rep). They also urged Kenyans to read and understand the proposals.