President Uhuru Kenyatta's allies from Central Kenya will on Saturday hold crucial talks even as DP William Ruto plans to storm the region for a series of rallies. Ruto's Sunday Muranga county tour is the first in as many months since falling out with his boss and being shoved from the heart of government. Curiously, Ruto is 'sneaking' into the president's bedroom' when the head of state is out of the country for a State visit in France. The Star has established that a section of the President's allies, will converge at a hotel in Murang'a on Saturday in what has been couched as a development session. Health Principal Secretary Susan Mochache could be a subject of anti-graft investigations over Kemsa procurement irregularities. A new report by the National Assembly Health Committee has laid bare the mess that could haunt not only the PS but also suspended Kemsa bosses, and the authority’s board of directors. MPs, in the report tabled on Thursday, want the PS probed on disputed procurement processes at the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority. Adversely mentioned are suspended CEO Jonah Manjari; procurement director Charles Juma; director Commercial Services Eliud Mureithi; head of finance; and staff who were involved in the procurement. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi are walking a tightrope in the face of their slim and difficult options for 2022. ODM leader Raila Odinga appears to have won the heart of President Uhuru Kenyatta and is his banking on Mount Kenya – Uhuru’s base, to catapult him to State House, though he has not yet declared. On the other hand, Deputy President William Ruto has triggered a political storm with his frenetic activities. Kalonzo and Musalia appear to be on their own – individually trying to chart their 2022 political plans. The retirement of the Coast's three most influential governors in 2022 has thrown the battle for the counties' top job wide open with new entrants already jostling for votes. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, Kilifi’s Amason Kingi and Kwale’s Salim Mvurya are all serving their second and last terms in office but their political shadows will loom large in their succession battles. Six aspirants are already lining up to succeed Joho, who is the ODM deputy party leader. Mvurya has endorsed his deputy Fatuma Achani to succeed him. Kingi is now seen to be leaning more towards Lands CAS Gideon Mung’aro than any other candidate. In Christianity, polygamy is a sin. In Islam, polygamy is allowed by the Quran. And in African culture, polygamy is a tradition passed down by our forefathers. As a man, would you rather have your other family remain a secret only for them to come out and fight for their space during your funeral, or would you introduce them to each other? And as a woman, would you rather know your co-wife/wives or let them remain in the dark and only come out of the cocoon when “your” husband dies. In SASA this Friday, the Star examines the dilemma of polygamy in Kenya.