Eldas MP Aden Keynan on Sunday threw his weight behind the Building Bridges Initiative report. He said the report is "by and large a good document that should be supported by all Kenyans". The document was officially handed to President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga last Wednesday. It continues to draw mixed reactions. Those in Uhuru-Raila camp have supported it, while those in DP William Ruto’s camp are still cagey about it. But Keynan, who spoke to the Star on the phone, said Kenyans should not rely on the media and social media protagonists for decisions on national discourse. Instead, they should make their own informed decisions after reading and understanding the proposals, he urged. "I want to ask every individual to give themselves a fair opportunity to digest and understand how this report appeals to their instincts and attends to their personal aspirations. It is only on this ground that one can make an informed decision on the legislative, policy and constitutional changes proposed by the BBI report,” he said. "Personally, I have finally interacted with, read and given emphasis to every detail in the report released by the Building Bridges Initiative Steering Committee. And I can confidently say without any fear of contradiction that the report meets the desires, aspirations and expectations of all Kenyans regardless of their socioeconomic, religious, cultural and political status." Keynan, who is the Jubilee coalition joint secretary, said Kenyans promulgated the 2010 Constitution knowing that it had loopholes and weak links that would be addressed later. That time is now, he said. He said Northern Kenya leaders have one more reason to support in the proposed increase in allocation to the counties. "Chapter 11 should be amended by increasing the resources to the counties from the current 15% to at least 35% of the last audited accounts and ensuring that the focus is on service delivery in the settled and serviced areas, including for people living near the furthest boundaries of each county," the report reads. Until devolution, the region complained about marginalisation by successive national administrations. But thanks to the 2010 Constitution that brought about devolution, development is now being felt. Things can only get better if the report is finally passed since it calls for more resources, he said. Keynan thanked President Kenyatta and the ODM leader Raila for "finding it prudent to shelf their personal interests and desires to start the process of healing the Nation". “I also send my profound gratitude to the BBI team, led by Mzee Yussuf Haji, for taking time, in consultation with Kenyans from all walks of lives, to put forward a comprehensive report that identifies our challenges and proposes a solution to every single setback,” he said.