The Teachers Service Commission has been criticised for frustrating teachers and crumbling their unions by starving them of cash to run their operations. Senators accused the teachers' employer of attempting to kill the teaching profession through constant meddling in the affairs of the unions. “The TSC is really frustrating teachers’ unions to the point that their deductions, the money that they are supposed to be getting from the TSC, is no longer given to them,” Bomet Senator Christopher Langat said. The lawmakers poured out their anger during a debate on Tuesday to commemorate World Teachers Day which was marked on Monday. During the celebrations, Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion narrated the frustrations that the union was undergoing in the hands of TSC. Sossion, who has had run-ins with the teachers’ employer, accused the TSC of intimidating teachers to leave the union. “Currently, if you are a member of Knut, you are not qualified to be promoted by TSC to any administrative position,” Sossion said. On Tuesday, the senators warned the TSC that they will not allow it to breakup unions which are formed to champion the welfare of teachers. Sossion also faulted the teachers’ employer for gross discrimination by having teachers serving in the same grade being remunerated differently on the basis of some being in Knut. The lawmakers accused the government of reducing tutors to beggars who must always beg or go on strike for their concerns to be heard. “The TSC is frustrating unions which have been the custodians teachers welfare. That is killing the teaching profession. The government of this country must rethink on the welfare of the teachers,” Langat, a former lecturer, said. Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja, who chairs the House Labour committee, said they will not allow TSC to break the teachers’ unions. “We want to urge the government to stop trying to break Knut. Teachers need a strong union. The Constitution talks about the right of any worker to unionise to be able to come together to agitate for their rights,” he said. “That is a right that cannot be taken away by trying to starve teachers of funds. That is against the Constitution.” Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua said teachers play an important role both in the classroom and in the society. “The most unfortunate thing about our situation is that our teachers have largely been reduced into almost beggars. Everything they are going to get from the government, they have to either beg for it or fight for it,” the legislator regretted. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula urged the government to accept and acknowledge the critical role teacher play in nurturing, developing and growth of children. “There is not any occasion when teachers get what they deserve until and unless they either threaten to strike or actually strike. And even if they do that, they end up with half measures being offered to them by successive governments,” the vocal Bungoma senator said. Edited by A.N