The managing director of the Italian firm implicated in the Arror and Kimwarer dams saga has asked the High Court to quash an arrest warrant issued by the Anti-Corruption Court. In court documents, Paolo Porcelli and other former board members of CMC Di Ravenna also challenged the criminal charges against them as vague. They say, in documents filed on October 1, that examination of the amended charge sheet and the evidence clearly indicate Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji lacks evidence to prove any crimes. “A close examination of the amended charge sheet indicates DPP does not have adequate evidence to prove criminal violations. Charges levelled against us are vague and lacking clarity,” they said. Neither project had started. President Uhuru Kenyatta cancelled the Kimwarer Dam and scaled back Arror Dam, both in Elgeyo Marakwet county. DPP Haji said the money was borrowed for the Sh63 billion projects, initially costed at Sh46 billion. He said the conception, procurement and payment for the projects were "riddled with irregularities". Treasury CS Henry Rotich and others, including KVDA officials, were charged and denied culpabililty. Porcelli said to date no land has been secured by the Kerio Valley Development Authority to begin construction. He said KVDA's failure to manage itself, together with other government agencies, blocked his firm's ability to execute the Arror and Kimwarer projects. CMC had entered into a contract with the authority to build the dams. Porceli said KVDA and the National Land Commission impeded progress by failing to acquire land in time, making work impossible. “To date, no land has been secured by the KVDA to begin construction. KVDA, the Treasury and a host of other government agencies struggled to address the issues,” he said. As a result, Porceli wants the charges quashed on grounds they are unclear. He said they lack adequate reference to the acts or omissions complained of, so they are unable to clearly  interpret what they are accused of, instead, being left to speculate. Former Treasury CS Henry Rotich and others have since been charged in connection with the dams saga and the failure to begin construction. Porceli and other board members were absent when the plea was taken but the court entered a plea of not guilty. Porceli said the court abused its powers by proceeding to bar advocates from representing them. He said barring their advocates curtailed their ability to address "glaring irregularities" in the charges. “The DPP has not demonstrated our alleged involvement and these are the issues which we have been barred from addressing in light of the directions from the court barring advocates from representing us,” he said. Porceli also asked the court to declare as unlawful the trial court's decision to bar their advocates from representing them. "Barring representation is tantamount to silencing the accused at the very time the Constitution demands we be heard. Without representatio, the accused has no voice,” court documents read. (Edited by V. Graham) 