Stakeholders have raised concern over the number of adults sleeping on the streets of Kisumu, which has increased sharply over the last eight months. A total of 318 men sleep on the streets, according to a recent census by Kisumu Street Children Rehabilitation Consortium. It is feared this figure could become a security problem as the city slowly reopens for business after the Covid-19 lockdown. The figure represents a 21 per cent increase from last year. Concerted efforts to establish the push and pull factors of the new phenomenon are needed. According to Chris Page who chairs the consortium, 134 children, all male, were found during the census night, bringing the total street population to 452. Page said this is a 10 per cent increase in the street population, with some of the children coming from as far as Uganda and Tanzania. "The rising number of adults is a big concern even though the number of street children in Kisumu was lower compared to Nakuru, Kakamega and Kitale,” he said. He stated that over 60 per cent of the street children and adults counted were from outside Kisumu. “Family disintegration, child neglect, drug abuse, cultural traditions and physical and sexual abuse are some of the reasons the children end up on the streets,” said Page, who is also the director of Agape Children’s Home that helps rehabilitate street children. He spoke during a meeting of Area Advisory Council (AAC) meeting at Kasagam Secondary School in Kisumu East subcounty. Page said Kisumu was a regional hub, which is why the county continues to witness more children trickling into the city every day. He urged the government to consider reopening rehabilitation centres so that the children are attended to and those on the streets are helped. Page stated that the consortium rescued 346 children from the streets during the Covid-19 outbreak. “Rehabilitating the children is the biggest challenge since the government closed all charitable children institutions and rehabilitation centres to contain the spread of Covid-19.”  Edited by Henry Makori