It is four months since Eric Irungu and his classmates began taking classes on their screens after schools shut in mid-March. The fifth-year pharmacy student at the University of Nairobi says the experience is not the same but with time, they have learnt to adapt. However, the big caveat is the cost implication that he has had to bear. Eric’s story is not unique: Thousands of students and parents have felt the pinch of the high cost of sustaining out-of-class learning. Despite an ever-growing level of Internet and technology penetration in Kenya,  data bundle prices remain high. Smartphones present students with great opportunities to be connected with peers and lecturers in sharing academic knowledge during and after lectures. The devices also allow them to engage in social networking and dialogue on different topics and ideas. However, students are dependent on others for their education, with a great percentage of their finances coming from parents, scholarships and bursaries. Most times, these funds are directly channelled to the institutions, leaving the student with a little amount for miscellaneous expenses. The University of Nairobi in June announced it would provide mobile data to its learners so that they can comfortably take part in the crash programme. However, Eric notes that this is not enough and they have been forced to dig deeper into their pockets to ensure full attendance. “What the university provides can only last a week during an active class session, then you have to cater for the remaining three weeks,” he told the Star. Education has been affected by the lockdown, as students are unable to go back to school to minimise the spread of the disease, prompting calls for the education sector to adopt e-learning. The students have been financially depressed as funds budgeted for academic activities are diverted to miscellaneous expenses like data bundles and airtime. With the high cost, some learners have been forced to abandon their programmes. So, too, has been the probability of incurring unexpected debt due to the misuse of funds available to carry out academic work. “We have been forced to go beyond the financial limit by borrowing (air time) from the network provider to attend the classes,” Eric said. Such debt creates a burden on the student as they try to keep up with their new way of schooling. Smartphones and laptops are the most common devices university students use in online learning access to the internet. The smartphones have intensified the functions of mobile services and computer services into one, with much functionality. “The government should consider providing a subsidy to university students to exclusively use for academic purposes,” University of Nairobi vice-chancellor Stephen Kiama told the Star on phone. Kiama argued that moving forward, and post Covid-19, universities will be forced to adopt out-of-class learning. Kiama also noted that partnerships with telcos can ease the delivery of e-learning.  