Vihiga Deputy Governor Patrick Saisi has urged the Pentecostal Assemblies of God church leadership in Hamisi to end their wrangles, saying it creates a bad image. He said if the wrangles continue, this may lead to bloodshed, as was witnessed in 2015. “In our previous meeting we engaged the two parties, and we agreed on various issues. It is a shame for spiritual leaders to fight,” Saisi told the Star on the phone. He asked church leaders to carry out their mandates as highlighted in the church's constitution. The deputy governor added that if any of them is tired of the duties vested in them, they should pack and leave, rather than engineer the downfall of the church. Saisi's concerns come after wrangles emerged at the PAG headquarters in Nyang’ori, Hamisi subcounty, on Wednesday, in which a caretaker committee was kicked out by the general superintendent's team. He blamed the problems on people he said were non-citizens of Hamisi subcounty. “The church should fight for the restoration of its lost glory. Don’t fall for divisions made up by outsiders. Stand up for your rights.” He further urged church members to stand firm and help end the disputes. “Members should stand firm and counter those trying to bring it down,” Saisi said Leadership wrangles in the church started a while back following disagreements over the election of the General Superintendent and officials in 128 church districts across the country. Since then, Rev Patrick Lihanda, the incumbent general superintendent, has had a rough time leading the church. Lihanda was reelected in March 2019 to a second term of five years, despite a court order suspending the election. The election was conducted after some members organised the polls at 3am on March 3, 2019. During the election, Lihanda garnered 1,370 votes out of 2,000 that were cast by delegates. He beat two other pastors in the polls. After the event, Rev Tom Olendo challenged the polls in court. He accused Lihanda of violating a court order that had suspended the drive. The general superintendent serves as the head of the church and is the official spokesperson. The official oversees resources, including institutions and finances. Edited by A.N