President Uhuru Kenyatta on Saturday struck a conciliatory tone at the inter-faith National Prayers held at State House in Nairobi. Uhuru sought the forgiveness of those he might have wronged and vice-versa saying that it was only through reconciliation and repentance that the country would realise unity. “We have been told to say that if we thank God and we seek repentance for our sins, and we forgive each other,” the President said. “So, I plead with all of you, if there is anyone that I have wronged, I plead for forgiveness. And if they're one of you who has wronged me, I also forgive him,” Uhuru, who has had run-ins with some leaders recently, said. Last month, Uhuru seemingly angry at attacks on him and his family by some leaders lost his cool and attacked the leaders terming them fools who should attack their mothers and leave his alone. “These fools who are going around throwing insults, tell them to go insult their mothers and leave mine alone..." Uhuru said, reacting to attacks on his mother, Mama Ngina Kenyatta, by MPs Oscar Sudi and Johana Ng’eno. Sudi and Ng'eno, who were later arrested and charged with incitement and hate speech, had verbally attacked the President and his moocher.’ "Kenya does not belong to Uhuru Kenyatta, it does not belong to Jomo Kenyatta or to Mama Ngina. Kenya belongs to the people, this is not a country you can rule the way you want, and if you want to shoot us, do it. How many people did you father shoot and Kenya is still standing,” Ng'eno had said. But on Saturday, Uhuru sought forgiveness for his utterances and asked all those who have cross paths with him to reciprocate. “That is the only route to us forward. Peace, peace, and let all Kenyans stay together and take our country ahead,” he said as he closed the second National prayers this year. At the event, attended by various political leaders among them Deputy President William Ruto, the President was the only politician who had the opportunity to address the gathering by virtue of being the host. First lady Margaret Kenyatta Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, ANC boss Musalia Mudavadi, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, his senate counterpart Kenneth Lusaka and Cabinet secretaries were among the top leaders who attended the prayers. Uhuru thanked God for Kenyans through the difficult period of Covid-19 and urged Kenyan to turn to the Creator, saying that was the only way the country will overcome the pandemic. “We are thanking the almighty God for keeping us safe and for helping us reach where we are today because for sure, we would not have been able to do that without His guidance, love and we need to recognise that. “We have undergone serious challenges. We may have won a number of battles, but more are yet to be won. And we need to continue to ask out creator to stand with us even as we move forward from today,” he added. The president also gave frontline health care workers a pat on the back for their selflessness and dedication fighting the global pandemic. “I will be wrong for me if I don’t take this opportunity to thank all our health workers. All our essential service providers who have gone above and beyond the call of duty during this difficult time.