A magistrate's court has directed former Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu to present himself at Kenyatta National Hospital for medical examination. Magistrate Thomas Nzyoki said Waititu should be examined by a team of three doctors appointed by the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board and a sealed medical report filed in court. The directive comes after prosecutors Gitinga Riungu and Victor Mule picked holes in medical reports presented by Waititu from a hospital in Huruma. They dismissed the reports, questioning their authenticity. The prosecution said the authors of the documents could not be relied on and a team of three doctors from the KMPDB should instead examine the former county chief. "We do not know for sure whether or not the accused is unwell. Medical reports are supposed to be done and presented before court. They should be prepared by independent doctors," it said. Waititu was in July last year charged with  Sh580 million irregular tender alongside his wife Susan Wangari and eight others. The DPP has on numerous occasions raised concerns over Waititu's absence, which has made it impossible for the case to proceed. As a result, they intend to have his bond terms cancelled. On Wednesday, magistrate Nzyoki agreed with the DPP, saying he found merit to subject Waititu to a team of three medical doctors as requested. "The orders issued by this court should be served to the medical board and the executive director at KNH and at Huruma where Waititu is alleged to have been admitted," he said. The case had been slated for hearing on Wednesday after the magistrate said he would not entertain any adjournment. Nzyoki issued a stern warning to Waititu that he should not come to court to generate a medical opinion. He told his lawyer John Swaka to ensure he attended court for a hearing. Waititu had in August this year told the court he tested positive for Covid-19. This prompted the court to adjourn the hearing. Ten days ago, the former county chief, through his lawyer, said he was still unwell. He produced documents from Super Care Medical Centre indicating he had been placed on bed rest for seven days. He was scheduled for a further review on October 26. The facility's records showed that Waititu complained of chest pains, headache and dizziness. On Monday, Waititu still failed to show up. His lawyer produced another report, saying his client had been admitted to Jumuia Hospital and was unable to attend court. He sought to have the matter adjourned and for it to proceed once his client recovers. But the magistrate said his order is meant to help the court come up with an appropriate decision to discover what is ailing the accused. "As we speak, there's nothing to suggest I should grant him an adjournment. The hearing of this case will proceed on Monday," Nzyoki said. However, Waititu, through Swaka, urged the court to give him at least seven days before appearing in court. This request was denied. "Let's work together and carry out our constitutional duties. Advise your client to appear in court on Monday," the court said.