The political divorce between President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto got uglier on Friday after the DP was declared persona non-grata at Jubilee headquarters. The National Management Committee, Jubilee's top decision-making organ, recommended the expulsion of the deputy party leader. However, this is subject to a National Executive Committee meeting chaired by President Kenyatta. The DP is the second in command in the party hierarchy. “The NMC has recommended to the NEC that the DP ceases to be deputy party leader after he opened the so-called Jubilee Asili offices reserved for him and his allies until such a time that this development of Jubilee Asili is discussed at the NEC,” party secretary general Raphael Tuju said. “It is no longer tenable for the DP to use the party platform, including statements from the party headquarters, to advance his divisive so-called hustler politics counter to the party and President's platform of uniting the country, the fight against corruption and the Agenda Four items.” Tuju told journalists on Friday that the DP will no longer be allowed to use the Pangani offices to speak for his "breakaway faction of the party". He added: “DPL as a self-declared presidential candidate for 2022 will not be allowed to use the party headquarters as a centre of operation of his 2022 campaign and to use the centre for intimidation of potential opponent or party staff.” This came a day after Ruto stormed the Pangani offices with over 30 MPs allied to his moribund Tanganga outfit. He held a boardroom meeting with the MPs who later addressed the media. Tuju termed the Thursday event an attempted power grab by Ruto in the absence of President Kenyatta who is in France on official business. “In the run-up to the events at the party headquarters yesterday, we have witnessed in recent days the following that are attributable to deputy party leader Hon William Ruto: exhibition of arrogance, insolence and disrespect of President Uhuru Kenyatta who is also the party leader of Jubilee.” The secretary general cited numerous instances where DP Ruto allegedly openly disrespected the President including Monday’s snub of the anti-Covid 19 conference at KICC. President Kenyatta and opposition chief Raila Odinga attended the function. “Last week, the party had made a decision not to field a candidate in the forthcoming Msambweni by-election. Shortly after that announcement, the DPL came to headquarters with an aspirant in tow. He went ahead to express his dissenting view on this matter but committed to respect the party position,” Tuju said. “It was a surprise to see the DPL emerge the following day unveiling and declaring his support for an independent candidate in contravention of the party position.” In a quick rejoinder,  close Ruto ally Kipchumba Murkomen dismissed Tuju as someone’s attack dog. “So Tuju recommends to Uhuru Kenyatta to part ways with William Ruto a day after the President said he wants to unite the country together with his deputy? Who is fooling who? Is Tuju speaking for himself or he is someone’s attack dog?” the  Elgeyo Marakwet senator tweeted.  - mwaniki fm