President Uhuru Kenyatta has led the nation in mourning one of Kenya's top lawyers Phillip Nzamba Kitonga who passed away on Saturday at the age of 64 years. In his message of comfort to the family, friends, relatives and the legal fraternity, the President described the departed Senior Counsel as a constitutional law stalwart and a patriotic Kenyan with unmatched legal prowess. "I am deeply saddened by the death of my friend Senior Counsel Nzamba Kitonga, a fine constitutional lawyer and a trailblazer whose successes in public service are finely documented. "We all remember and are forever indebted to Nzamba and his Committee of Experts for midwifing the 2010 constitution and for his many exploits as a lawyer of high standing," the President eulogised. The Head of State said the death of Kitonga is a major blow to Kenya especially now that the country is gearing up for fundamental constitutional reforms through the ongoing BBI process. “Senior Counsel Nzamba Kitonga played a major role in the drafting of the 2010 Constitution and as a country we really needed his input as we take audit of it through the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI). “It is extremely sad that the cruel hand of death has snatched him from us at a time when our country is entering a constitutional moment,” the President Kenyatta wrote. President Kenyatta prayed to God to comfort and give fortitude to the family, relatives and friends of the late Senior Counsel as they come to terms with his sudden death. Supreme Court judge Njoki Ndung'u said she was shocked and "very sorry to hear about the death of Senior Counsel Nzamba Kitonga". "My deepest condolences to his family. Nzamba and I have been personal friends for many years from the time when I was a law student. He always showed a steady hand in all matters he was charged with,: she said. Ndung'u said in particular as Chairman of the Committee of experts on constitutional review - of which she  was a member - he remained calm and focused despite all the political turbulence surrounding the process. "He also had a great sense of humor that quickly diffused acrimony and tensions in any room where there was such ideological sparring in contest: there are many lessons to be learned from this selfless approach on matters controversial that can be applied even now as the Country discusses and debates BBI." Ndung'u continued, "As Senior Counsel he appeared before the Supreme Court with such professional demeanor and decorum that ought to be emulated by members of the Bar. He will be greatly missed. May his gentle soul Rest In Peace."