Juventus’ defeat to Barcelona was another useful lesson for a team that is still under construction, coach Andrea Pirlo said after Wednesday’s Champions League game. “This defeat will help us to grow,” said Pirlo, who himself is in his first season as a coach. “It was a difficult game against a team that knows how to play and are further down the path than we are. We are a team under construction, with players who were playing only their second Champions League match.” Juventus have drawn three of their four games on the pitch in Serie A and won one and lost one in the Champions League as Pirlo attempts to rebuild the side. “We are all eager to improve and play on par with teams like Barcelona as quickly as possible,” added Pirlo. Captain Leonardo Bonucci admitted that results so far were disappointing. “It’s time to grit our teeth, to bring out the best in ourselves. These results are not up to our standards. Tonight, we knew it would be difficult. We made too many mistakes and Barcelona don’t forgive,” he said. “We could have done something more... but obviously, there is a lack of experience at European level in the players who have arrived.” “We are playing every three days and it’s starting to show. Now we have to think about getting back to winning in the league.” Meanwhile, Barcelona midfielder Sergi Roberto said the away win was the perfect reply to the club’s boardroom crisis. The club was rocked when club president Josep Maria Bartomeu resigned on Tuesday to avoid facing a vote of no confidence after some 20,000 fans signed a petition demanding that he step down. “The best answer was today’s game. We want to win titles and matches as we showed today,” said Sergi Roberto. “It’s all in the past, we’re concentrating on our job.” Coach Ronald Koeman agreed that his team had tried to put the boardroom issue out of their minds. “I think we have to concentrate on the sporting side,” he said. “It doesn’t affect us and it doesn’t worry me. We put our energy into football.” Barcelona have won their two games in Champions League Group G, a sharp contrast to their La Liga form where they are without a win in their last three matches. “This was our best game all season. This is a big win against an important European side and we were able to play the football we’re trying to impose,” Koeman said. “It is always important to create chances. We were superior by playing our game. It was the right result.”