Come, let us now reason together. These were the words of former Prime Minister Raila Odinga during the launch of the BBI report. Raila, while quoting the Bible from the book of Isaiah, said the referendum should be a unifying factor where everyone is brought on board. While referencing to the Quran, Raila said those who listen to all statements and follow the best of it are the ones whom Allah has chosen. "Let us talk to each other and not at each other. The BBI is not about Uhuru becoming Prime Minister and Raila the President, it is about what is the best for the country," Raila said. While dismissing reports that he will contest in the 2022 presidency, Raila said, "Raila has not declared he wants to run for the presidency". Raila said for now, the Jubilee government must be given time to complete on their four-point agenda before 2022 politics kicks in. "Right now they are all in government, serving as a pair and must be given time to complete what they have to now and not wait for 2022," Raila said. However, Raila also took the opportunity to make subtle jabs at Deputy President William Ruto, saying those who keep talking about what they will do in 2022, should do those things now. These remarks were similar to those made by Uhuru on Sunday while in Nyeri. Raila also said Kenyan problems must have a homegrown solutions. "No Kenyan should sleep hungry or be denied access to medical care. We want an equal society with a new ethos of 'utu' where we live as brother and sister. We must feel proud of being Kenyans," Raila said. He added, "Everyone has spoken and has been heard; we want the referendum process to be a unifying factor and if possible a noncontested process." Raila said the 2010 Constitution was a ceasefire document and the time has come for the country as a whole to look at issues ailing it. "Our Constitution has been praised as the most democratic in the region yet our people still suffer. The BBI report is a result of extensive consultations, but it is still a work in progress," he said.