“We need to reflect on the rising positive cases and deaths. If they don’t mean anything to us, then please let our loved ones count.” These were the words of Health CS Mutahi Kagwe during the daily Covid-19 update at Afya House on Sunday. Modeling teams said the country is witnessing a second wave of infections, a development likely to see the government reimpose contanment measues. "Fellow Kenyans, let's get prepared for the long haul. This is not going to be a short-term issue," Kagwe said. The National Emergency Response Committee met on Sunday to examine the rising infections since containment measures were relaxes on September 28. The country recorded 685 new cases, the highest since the containment measures were eased. Seven died to the virus, rising the fatalities to 832. What is more worrying is that the current infections are more severe, with an increase in the number of patients being admitted in hospital and in ICU. As of Sunday, 991 patients were admitted in various health facilities, a figure that has doubled in less than two weeks as a result of established community transmission. “If you also look at the critical care, we have been having numbers below 10 but as of Sunday we were having 28 people in ICU, 10 under ventilator support, 14 on supplemental oxygen and four under observation,” Health DG Patrick Amoth said. “That tells you that we are getting a more severe form of the disease and what is also  nique in this second part of the infections is that all age groups are affected. We are losing more and more people who are young and who do not have any coexisting medical conditions.” Counties such as Isiolo that had no previous history of ICU patients are now having cases. Kagwe noted an increase in cases from prisons and institutions in counties. “Nakuru being a particularly high one, we are asking Nakuru residents to be on the lookout and know that cases are rising rather sharply in that county. Nairobi as well is beginning to show a straight upright swing like Mombasa,” Kagwe said. Other counties include Kilifi, Trans Nzoia, Kisumu, Bungoma, Kisii and Turkana. On Sunday, Nairobi recorded 141 new cases followed by Nakuru with 127, Momabasa with 73, Trans Nzoia 61, Kisii 37, Kiambu with 30, Kakamega 27, Kisumu  27 and Busia with 20. The CS criticised politicians for holding large gatherings where there is no physical spacing. Bars are also on the radar for failing to adhere to the containment measures and protocols. Some are also accused of total disregard of social distancing and wearing of face masks. “We must not as a result of individual responsibility allow ourselves to go back and take the same measures that were there in order for us to start containing this disease once again,” Kagwe said. “What happens tomorrow, whether the measures are escalated or not, depends purely on us Kenyans. It depends on the business owners, on the people in the streets and the political leaders.” On Sunday, the team proposed that the Interfaith Council also hold a meeting to discuss infections in  a lot of the churches and advise accordingly. Edited by Henry Makori