A Kibera court has allowed detectives seven more days to continue holding a cleaner attached to the Kenyatta National Hospital who was found with a mobile phone of a missing person until investigations are complete. Senior principal magistrate Phillip Mutua allowed detectives to continue holding  Enock Omeda at the Langata Police Station until November 4. Omeda told the court that he was later informed that the missing man was in the morgue after dying from a road accident. He insisted he had nothing to do with the death and only picked the phone at the Kenyatta Hospital garbage collection booth. Sergeant Hellen Koech of Lang’ata DCI office successfully filed a miscellaneous application before the court on Wednesday. Koech told the court that he was investigating the disappearance of Eliud Wabwile who was reported missing on October 15. She told the court that Wabwile’s son reported him missing at Lang’ata police station vide OB 43/15/10/2020 after he failed to appear at his home. The sergeant told the court that efforts by the man’s family to contact him on phone were not successful as his mobile phone was switched off. "DCI officers obtained Wabwile’s phone’s International Mobile Equipment Identification (IMEI) number, traced it and found Omeda using it at his home in Kikuyu township where they arrested him on October 26,” said Koech. Koech said that she needed more time to conclude the investigations as she intended to get all the text messages from the missing person’s phone. “We need more time to complete our investigations for the purpose of forming a substantive charge, the investigator intends to get all the text messages from the missing person’s gadget paired to his Safaricom number and from (Omeda’s) phone paired with his Safaricom number,” Koech stated in an affidavit filed at the Kibera law courts. She also urged the court to grant an order to Safaricom Limited to furnish her with M-Pesa statements and call data records of the suspect and the missing person. Koech also wants to analyse both phones to find out whether there was communication between Omeda and Wabwile before he went missing. The detective is in possession of both phones. The matter will be mentioned on November 2.