Kenya will on Tuesday mark its 57th Mashujaa Day at the 25,000-seating capacity Gusii Stadium in Kisii County. This year’s event will be one of its kind, only open for the invited guests in line with strict coronavirus measures. The country suspended all the public gatherings in March to curb further spread of the virus which has claimed more than 800 lives. Kenya recorded its first virus case on March 13, and the caseload has hit 44,881 out of 621,976 cumulative tests. This year’s Mashujaa Day celebrations will also be the first event open to the members of the public following the relaxation of Covid-19 restrictions. The county had initially been chosen to host this year's Madaraka Day celebrations but was later cancelled, and even hosted at the State House, Nairobi. Nevertheless, the county was given another opportunity to showcase its beauty to the country by being awarded the right to host another national celebration day. President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto are expected to be at the stadium, which will only host 3,000 invited guests. According to the Interior PS Karanja Kibicho, some of the usual events that are normally being observed at the celebrations might be omitted. “The usual hosting of crowds inside may not happen. The usual display of the kids and scouts, police…we may miss a bit of that as we observe the protocol but we will ensure that we give the celebrations here the dignity that Mashujaa Day and the Mshujaa of this country deserves,” Kibicho said. The government in collaboration with the County Government of Kisii has also set up measures to ensure that the locals and those who might not access the stadium to follow up the proceedings at different venues. A total of 10 screens will be mounted at different locations within the town, including outside the stadium, Kisii Golf Club, Kisii Primary School, and other locations. The national government in partnership with the county gave Kisii town a major upgrade ahead of the fete. Some of the multimillion-shilling projects included the construction of a State Lodge, tarmacking of 20km of road, and increasing Gusii Stadium capacity to 10,000. Kenya Power also installed 568 street lights at a cost of Sh58 million.