Deputy President William Ruto has asked leaders to be tolerant of each other. Ruto sought for forgiveness on behalf of the government from the church over the spots of interruptions of their services witnessed in Murang’a, Kakamega and Nyamira Counties. “We should never witness such in a country that professes to be God-fearing. Teargas should never be near a church or worshippers,” he said. He said they must respect and accommodate each other even when faced with differing ideas on issues. “Let us work together. We want a country that we can all walk together,” DP said. He spoke on Sunday at the Africa Inland Church Bomani in Machakos Town during the Sunday service. Ruto was accompanied by Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana, MPs Victor Munyaka (Machakos), Vincent Musyoka (Mwala), Nimrod Mbai (Kitui East), Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), Kimani Ichung’wa (Kikuyu), George Theuri (Embakasi West) and Nixon Korir (Lang’ata). While supporting these sentiments, Prof Kibwana said leaders, especially Governors, should not be intimidated for taking a certain political stand. “We fought for this Constitution because it promised to treat everyone equally. We are not happy with the way things are being run in this country,” he argued. The Makueni Governor said the current constitution is no longer being respected. “Now we want to review the constitution. Would this new one be respected?” he posed. The Makueni governor called on leaders to dialogue and put the country on a united and transformation path “because we do not want a return of the 2007 and 2009 turbulence." He said it was obvious Kenya was divided into the haves and the have-nots, and as such, something must be done to bring equality among the people. “We have an unequal country and we must do something about it,” he explained. On his part, Machakos MP Munyaka said we all have inadequacies, hence the need to forgive each other. “But we must be truthful and faithful to our constitution. Let us uphold the freedom of assembly and worship. Let us not apply double standards while using our laws,” he said. Mwala MP Vincent Musyoka asked leaders not to abuse the powers that have been bestowed unto them. “Why make the poor suffer because of politics. Let us compete on issues rather than engaging in ethnicity and hate,” added Ichung’wa. Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa called on religious organizations to stand firm and tell the country the truth. “The church must stand for justice to all. The trend we are taking is dangerous. We may have to go to church to worship but at the discretion of some people,” she said. On Saturday, President Uhuru also stated that if he has wronged anyone, he asked for forgiveness. Uhuru sought the forgiveness of those he might have wronged and vice-versa saying that it was only through reconciliation and repentance that the country would realise unity. “We have been told to say that if we thank God and we seek repentance for our sins, and we forgive each other,” the President said.