The country should not go into a referendum in a state of disunity, Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua said on Wednesday. He said President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga have the necessary adhesive to bring the country together. Mutua also called for inclusivity and consensus building in the BBI process. “I said it at Bomas and I insist today, the BBI process should be all-inclusive. We need to build consensus because we are too close to 2022 to fully recover from a divisive and bruising referendum,” he said. He was responding to a question raised by one of the residents at Mariakani market, Kilifi, during a ‘listening tour’. The resident was concerned that the disunity between the President and Deputy President William Ruto might lead to chaos during the referendum and spill over to the 2022 General Election. Mutua said a team should be formed to help address the concerns raised by opponents of the BBI, including DP Ruto. “I propose, as a first step, the President formally appoints and chairs a consensus team comprising the Deputy President, Raila and all party leaders to begin consensus building and avoid polarising the country,” Mutua said. He said the team would benefit from the expertise and wisdom of other eminent citizens who should also be frequently consulted. “Once the political leaders agree, it will be easy to rally the rest of the country,”  Mutua said. After visiting Mariakani market, Mutua moved to Kaloleni, where he said the country’s economy, unity and President Kenyatta’s legacy are at stake. “I ask the President to lead a group of leaders in discussing and addressing the contentious issues that need amendment. They should also include religious and business leaders,” Mutua said. “Ninety-five per cent of the BBI is okay. The five per cent that is bringing concerns should be discussed and agreed upon so that we move as one united people.” He said Kenya must not go into the elections with a section of them feeling like winners while others feel like losers. “If we go into a ‘Yes’ or ‘No’ vote [without addressing the contentious issues], we will burn the country,” the Machakos governor warned. He said some will take advantage of their differences and introduce their selfish interests into the constitutional debate, which he said requires sober minds and leadership, not politics. Mutua, who is the Maendeleo Chap Chap party leader, said so far none of the leaders angling to take over from Uhuru has talked about uplifting the country’s economy. “It is only politics. Hustler vs dynasties. No one is talking about the economy and how they will alleviate people from poverty. It is only about politics. This is what makes people fight,” Mutua said. Poverty, he said, is the biggest problem bedeviling the majority of Kenyans. He challenged Uhuru and Ruto to listen to the voices of the people, who, he said, want development and not political contests. He said that in the last seven years, Uhuru and Ruto have been at the helm, many Kenyan youths have remained unemployed. “So, I get shocked when I see William Ruto going around saying he is talking about hustlers, yet he is the one who created those hustlers he has been talking about,” Mutua said. He said the DP has been in government and should have created job opportunities for them, so they can get out of that hustler state.  Edited by A.N