For those who use iOS phones, there are applications that you can have that can make your experience with the device interesting and enjoyable. One of the apps is the ASL app, which is a free iPhone and iPad app specifically made for learning the basics of American Sign Language. It uses videos to teach you the alphabet, various useful words and phrases. It also uses videos to teach the required gestures. It has a search index when you need to know a sign right away. It also has the slow motion option, information tips and a favourites folder. With this application, you can save the signs you want to review again in your own favourite folder where you can go back to it and practice more. Another advantage is you can also upload different signs that you have learnt to Twitter and Facebook sharing with friends making ASL learning fun and progressive. Bing is another application that helps to show that there is more than one way to find webpages, directions, videos and photos on the internet. It has a design that is clear and simple to use. You can get the things you love with the Microsoft rewards by earning points for searching and redeem them for free gift cards from Skype, Mark &Spencer and Xbox. With one search, you can save money by comparing reviews and prices from major retailers with the built-in barcode scanner. You can also discover what is nearby including deals, places to eat and drink and things to do. The one search can get reviews and information from the sites you trust such as Yelp, TripAdvisor, Wikipedia and Reddit. You can also control your search and browsing history with private mode. It allows you to get things you want by snapping a pic to search, shop, find similar images, and learn about the things you see. Downcast app for iPhone is suited for people who want a lot of control over their podcast listening experience. It shines with excellent features, smart downloading options and a great interface. It lets you customize not only how often the podcast catcher checks for new episodes but also where you are when it does, using geofencing. Subscribing to a podcast automatically adds the latest episode to your list. Setting lets you change the default action to do nothing, download all-new episodes, download the most recent episodes, mark all-new for streaming or mark the most recent episodes for streaming. It has plenty of clean-up options that allows you to keep all, all unplayed, most recent, most recent unplayed, last two, last two unplayed with several more options topping out at twenty. With these apps, the iPhone and iPad users are able to have a great experience on their devices.