Dubow Barre, the elder brother of Garissa Township MP Aden Duale who died in a road accident, was on Sunday afternoon laid to rest at Garissa Ndogo cemetery. Dubow died on Sunday morning near Bangal town. The brief Islamic burial was attended by hundreds of residents led by Duale. The MP described his brother as "loving, the bond of our family and an elder in the community". The death comes barely two months after Duale lost his mother Hawa Kosar Shurie, 90, on August 26 at a Nairobi hospital where she was receiving treatment. Dubow, 63, was the second born in a family  of ten. He was Duale's confidant and played a big role in the MP's political career by organising functions. “You could hardly miss Dubow in any of Duale’s functions unless he was not feeling well or he was out of town. We will really miss his jovial smile, easygoing nature and being down-to-earth,” a family member who requested anonymity said. National leaders led by Deputy President William Ruto and  Garissa Senator Yussuf Haji sent their condolences to the family. “Our heartfelt condolences to Garissa Township MP Aden Duale  for the loss of your dear brother Dubow Barre,” Ruto said on his Facebook page. “Mzee Barre was a distinguished leader, astute businessman and a devoted advocate for peace who will be remembered for his vision and fresh ideas that transformed many lives. “We honour Mzee Barre’s rich legacy and mourn his death with the family, friends and the people of Garissa Township. Rest In Peace.” Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi said: “My heartfelt condolences to Hon Aden Barre Duale,  MP Garissa Township and former Majority Leader of the National Assembly, for the painful loss of his elder brother Mzee Dubow Barre Duale in a grisly road accident this morning near Bangal. " May the merciful Allah bless the departed soul in the highest ranks of jannah and give comfort to the larger Barre Duale family during this sorrowful moment. Indeed, every soul shall taste death.” Energy CS Charles Keter, a close friend of Duale, also conveyed his message of condolence to the family, saying "May Allah grant them the strength and grace to bear the great loss." Edited by Henry Makori