The Teachers Service Commission has said that the list of successful applicants to feel vacant posts has been drafted. The commission said that the next step will be to interview the shortlisted applicants in venues that will be communicated later to them. “The timelines for the recruitment of teachers have been reviewed as shown. Successful applicants will be informed about the venues of the interviews by county officers.,” TSC said. TSC has also asked members of the public to report any fraudsters to any TSC office or the nearest police station. This comes a day after fake news was spread across the social media, purporting that the commission had abandoned the recruitment due to ICT breakdown which caused the loss of applicants’ data. The commissioned dismissed the rumours, saying that the recruitment exercise was still on course. TSC had advertised on September 1 that it was looking to hire more than 5,000 teachers in both public primary and secondary schools. Qualified applicants had up to September 14 to submit their details through online, using the commission’s website. According to the commission, the county selection process and filing of the application for employment forms by successful candidates will run from October 8-14. Vetting and handling of complaints arising from the exercise will be carried out from October 15-22 at county levels. The commission will be receiving documents at its headquarters in Nairobi on October 23-26. TSC will then start to verify the results from October 27 to November 18, before the successful teachers report to various schools on January 4, 2021. The county directors will submit reporting status to the commission by the end of January. The commission had said the new posts will support the 100 per cent transition from primary to secondary. The teachers recruited will serve on permanent and pensionable terms of service. TSC are recruiting 4,000 secondary school teaching posts and the qualification includes being a Kenyan citizen, have at least a diploma in education, and must be a registered teacher with the Teachers Service Commission. The commission is also seeking to promote and deploy 1,000 public primary teachers and applicants must be a Kenyan citizen, must be a holder of a PI certificate, and must be a registered teacher with the Teachers Service Commission.