Late in the evening of Wednesday, Deputy President William Ruto received a State House invite for an urgent Cabinet meeting the following day. He obliged and attended the impromptu session chaired by President Uhuru Kenyatta, which was said to be stormy. This was a day after the National Security Advisory Council issued stringent measures seen as aimed at clipping Ruto’s 2022 campaign wings. Ruto had initially hoped to be done with the meeting by 10am. He would then fly directly to Kebirigo in Nyamira county for his 'hustler movement' empowerment programme. This was not to be. The meeting dragged on until after 1pm. Unknown to him, security officers were being mobilised in massive numbers to scuttle his planned fundraisers in Nyamira. He would later learn that police had engaged his supporters in running battles in Kitutu Masaba and West Mugirango. It was clear the state had plotted to thwart his harambees. Ruto had two options, defy the orders of the government in which he serves or obey them. He chose to back down. The Deputy President called his Kisii allies and rescheduled his meetings to next week. Uhuru date with Kisii leaders As Ruto was dashing from the Cabinet session to his harambees, about 30 senior Kisii politicians and professionals were waiting to see Uhuru at State House. They had been mobilised on Wednesday and were led by Kisii Governor James Ongwae and his Nyamira counterpart John Nyagarama. Majority of the MPs from the region were part of the team. “The invites for the meeting with Kisii and Nyamira leaders were sent out on Wednesday, the same day MPs allied to Ruto had already travelled to prepare the ground,” West Mugirango MP Vincent Kemosi said. The task to coordinate the lawmakers was given to Nakuru Town West MP Samuel Arama. The leaders also included Kisii Professionals chairman John Simba and Council of Elders chairman James Matundura. During the meeting, the leaders cautioned politicians engaged in what they termed divisive politics. They said leaders spreading hate and sowing division among Kenyans are not welcome in their region. "We intend to maintain the statehood of this country together, the way you're doing it. We intend to put this nation together so that generation after generation will have a place to stay unperturbed by anybody,” Kisii Senator Sam Ongeri said. "If somebody wants leadership, let him go ask from people in a polite way, not in this manner, first of all defying you [Uhuru].” During the meeting, which ended at around 8pm, the leaders also discussed development projects. The region will host this year's Mashujaa Day celebrations at Gusii Stadium. A dispatch from State House spokesperson Kanze Dena said the leaders held a detailed conversation on a number of projects, including roads, water supply, education and fresh produce markets, among others. “The leaders listed several key roads, waterworks, including the upgrading of Kisii water supply system, hospitals and fresh produce markets at Daraja Mbili and Nyakoe as some of the government projects that are helping uplift the economic well-being of the greater Kisii,” said the statement. Cabinet secretaries Fred Matiang’i (Interior), James Macharia (Infrastructure) and Mutahi Kagwe (Health) were present.