Nyamira and Kisii leaders have endorsed Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i for the presidency. The politicians, among them Kisii Governor James Ongwae and his Nyamira counterpart John Nyagarama, said on Sunday Matiang’i has what it takes to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. The declaration was made at the Agriculture Training Centre in Kisii. The Interior CS, who hails from Nyamira, has, however, not declared his interest in the seat. He briefly attended the function. The meeting appeared to mark the final push for the President to overlook DP William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga when shopping for a successor. "As a community, we have resolved to support him, having assessed his capability and going through his performance in government. As a people, we reject any attempts to divide us," said a joint statement read by Kisii Woman Representative Janet Ong'era. The leaders said the community has come of age, especially in terms of numerical strength and can dictate the political direction of the country. "It is time other communities also supported our quest for the country's top leadership position," Ong'era said. Various groups, including MCAs, elders, Maendeleo ya Wanawake, boda boda officials and youth leaders also attended the meeting. The statement was signed by the two governors and senators Okong'o Omogeni (Nyamira) and Sam Ongeri (Kisii). Nyamira Woman Representative Jerusha Momanyi and MPs Ezekiel Machogu (Nyaribari Masaba), Samuel Arama (Nakuru West), Richard Tong'i (Nyaribari Chache) also endorsed the declaration. Others were Oroo Oyioka (Bonchari), Jimmy Angwenyi (Kitutu Chache North), Richard Onyonka (Kitutu Chache South), Zadock Ogutu (Bomachoge Borabu) and Ben Momanyi (Borabu). MPs Joash Nyamoko (North Mugirango), Shadrack Mose (Kitutu Masaba) and Vincent Kemosi (West Mugirango) from Nyamira skipped the event. From Kisii, MPs Sylvanus Osoro (South Mugirango), Alfa Miruka (Bomachoge Chache) and Deputy Governor Joash Maangi were no-shows. Nyamoko told the Star by phone that he was out of the region and was unaware of any plan to endorse the CS. "I'm absolutely not aware of the move to advance the CS's political ambition,” said Nyamoko, a Ruto ally. Ong'era said they forwarded a list of demands to the President and hope he will ratify them as he presides over Mashujaa Day celebrations on Tuesday. The demands are part of the region's development agenda. Uhuru will be initiating a number of projects besides inspecting ongoing ones, including roads. The politicians want the region's youth empowered "not with handouts and wheelbarrows" but through sustainable programmes aimed at leveraging their economy. They have also called for debt forgiveness by the government to coffee farmers. They said coffee farmers from the region still have loans to service when their counterparts from Mount Kenya had theirs forgiven by the head of state. The leaders further called for a state-funded economic stimulus programme to boost farmers in the tea sector. Most of the tea farmers from the region earn low bonuses. Others have since begun to uproot the crop, citing poor income. The leaders also want more professionals from the region appointed to key state positions. They also rooted for the Building Bridges Initiative to present opportunities that address the country's key challenges such as youth unemployment. Edited by  F'Orieny