Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua has yet again torn into President Uhuru Kenyatta over his alleged disregard of the rule of law. Barely two months after terming Uhuru's administration as a failed government over its handling of Covid-19 funds, Karua on Tuesday said the President should learn to operate within the law. “Organising national prayer days is not enough. Asking for forgiveness from the people whom you have wronged is also not enough. Just operate within the Constitution,” Karua said. In a surprising turn of events, Karua, a known harsh critic of Deputy President William Ruto, seemed to side with the second in command after the government appeared to erect blocks to his meet-the-people tours. She said Uhuru should not use the police to stop legitimate activities of his deputy. “What precedent are we setting on how deputies should be treated? State power should not be used to settle personal scores,” she said in a statement. The Narc Kenya leader took issue with Uhuru's persistent support for the Building Bridges Initiative, “yet remaining unfaithful to the oath of office he took.” “Why keep talking about the Building Bridges Initiative while destroying the already existing bridges?” she posed. Her remarks come a day after a cross section of legislators accused the government of double standards by disallowing some politicians from holding political meetings over security concerns and Covid-19 restrictions. The leaders regretted that the government had stopped some leaders from holding public meetings, while at the same time allowing their competitors to assemble in large groups. They legislators included senators Samson Cherargei (Nandi), Ledama Olekina (Narok), Isaac Mwaura (nominated) and Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet) and Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua. Even so, Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai has mentained the National Police Service will only authorise public gatherings after ascertaining there is no risk of violence. Several functions that Ruto had been scheduled to attend in various parts of the country have been canceled. Karua said the police chief should remain faithful to his oath of office and apply the law fairly. “When the law is applied in a skewed manner, it may lead to a civil strife. Don't cover up for one side while heaping blame on another side,” she warned. She added that the police should not be used to oppress those who do not agree with the government. “This is a wake-up call to the President. Rise up to your duties. Adhere to your oath of office. You must no allow chaos and anarchy under your watch in the guise of facilitating one side of the political divide to gain advantage,” she stated. Karua added that there is double standards in application of the law where police are facilitating meetings by those aligned “to the President and his BBI partner, ODM leader Raila Odinga”, while disrupting meetings of those perceived to be against constitutional amendments. “We must tell the police and Uhuru's administration that no Cabinet, technical or security committee can amend the Constitution through declarations. Politicians do not need permission to hold meetings. They merely notify the police,” she said. Edited by EKibii