The Baringo administration has appealed to partners to help raise Sh1.2 billion emergency funds to resettle victims of floods and landslides. Governor Stanley Kiptis said thousands of people were displaced after their houses were submerged in the flooded areas near lakes Baringo, 94 and Bogoria. “Alongside those displaced by landslides more than 4,700 households were affected. As a county we have only managed to support 1,027,” Kiptis told journalists at his Kabarnet offices on Thursday. More than 30,000 residents including school children were displaced following prolonged rainfall in the area beginning in April. Baringo Deputy Governor Jacob Chepkwony who heads the county disaster department said they have a limited budget for emergencies owing to their meagre resources. Kiptis further appealed to partners for Sh540 million to support the reconstruction of more than 18 primary and secondary schools that were submerged by floodwaters. “It is unfortunate that learning might not resume when schools open on Monday in the submerged schools – not until something is done to relocate and reconstruct the classrooms,” he said. More than 10,000 affected learners shall be locked out of school. The governor said the county requires additional Sh51 million emergency funds to rehabilitate flooded health facilities. Kiptis praised the partnerships of the county with the National Council of Churches of Kenya, North Rift Economic Bloc and Dan Church Aid. The institutions donated Covid-19 equipment and made cash transfers to residents. “I assure you we will continue to partner in this endeavour,” he said. The county boss called upon more partners to support Baringo with resources and train its people to build resilience in climate change mitigation and adaptation. “We will work with the county assembly to pass all necessary laws to promote effective environmental management,” he said. Dan Church Aid county director Karen Poore, NCCK South Rift region chairman Bishop Musa Kamuren and officials from Ugatuzi na Haki organisation and Noreb were present.