The government has set aside Sh700 million to lend to small and medium scale entrepreneurs in addition to the existing funds for youths and women. Trade, Industrialisation and Enterprise Development CAS Lawrence Karanja said the kitty will include a programme to empower small-scale farmers through distribution of fast growing fruit seedlings. The seedlings, he added, include hass avocado, oranges, tangerines and macadamia. Karanja spoke in Badassa area, Saku constituency in Marsabit county on Monday when he accompanied Agriculture CAS  Anne Nyaga to distribute fruit seedlings. He said the loans would attract an interest of below five per cent. “The government will give the loans to the traders and especially the youth without collateral,” the CAS said. Training will be offered to successful applicants in order to build their expertise in business. Karanja said that the training will complement the skills imparted at TVET institutions that are geared towards making the youth secure employment and become self-reliant. Nyaga launched distribution of 5,000 seedlings of grafted avocado to farmers of Saku constituency for planting this rain season. She said the exercise was a socio-economic intervention to mitigate against Covid-19 as directed by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The CAS said the move was aimed at boosting food security at the household level while those who will expand could be supported to commercial level. Nyaga expressed concern over complaints raised by residents about persistent destruction of their crops by elephants and other wild animals straying from Marsabit Game Reserve. She assured the residents that talks were at an advanced stage with the ministry concerned and the Kenya Wildlife Service for a lasting solution to the problem. The CAS said a survey was conducted to ascertain the extent of damage caused by the invasion of locusts in various parts of the county. Nyaga said the government was working on a post-locust recovery support for the residents. Edited by Henry Makori