Murang'a matatu drivers will be trained on safe driving and ways to protect themselves and passengers from Covid-19 in a partnership between Kenya Breweries and the National Transport and Safety Authority. The programme is aimed at reducing road accidents and protecting crew and passengers from Covid-19. NTSA director for road safety Badu Katelo said more than 60 accidents were caused by drunk driving in the last month. Speaking in Murang’a on Saturday, Katelo said the partnership will save lives as it will emphasise the need for public service vehicles drivers to adhere to the traffic rules and reduce accidents. The director also challenged private motorists to desist from drunk driving and instead get designated drivers. He said the chances of getting involved in an accident rises significantly when one is inebriated as it impairs their judgment. Katelo further warned matatu operators against flouting the Covid-19 prevention protocols put in place by the government. “Since the restrictions [to prevent Covid-19] were relaxed, we have realised that many matatus have been ferrying excess passengers which endangers their lives,” he said. The authority has been conducting random alcoblow operations along major roads in Murang’a for the last one week. KBL’s head of sustainability Arnolda Shiundu said the objective of the partnership is instilling a behavioural change among drivers to help them protect themselves and their passengers from Covid-19. “We have realised that many matatu operators have relaxed and are no longer observing Covid-19 prevention guidelines,” she added. Shiundu said that KBL is strongly against drunk driving as it has been proven to increase road carnage. The partnership, she noted, aims at reducing road accidents and minimising the spread of Covid-19 in the public transport sector. The programme is being implemented in several counties including Murang’a and Kisumu. Murang’a county commissioner Mohammed Barre asked passengers not to board matatus that are not adhering to the government’s Covid-19 prevention measures. “We are asking Kenyans to be mindful of their health and avoid travelling in crowded matatus that may expose them to the virus,” he said. Barre noted that police officers will be on the lookout for non-adhering matatus. During the event, Reckitt Benckiser Company Plc, manufacturer of Dettol soaps, donated chemicals to matatu crew to sanitise their vehicles and ensure the right hygiene standards are maintained. There has been an alarm over the rising cases of Covid-19 infections in the country. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe announced last week that the current rate of infection has increased to 12 per cent from the previous four per cent when the President partially reopened the economy. 