Confusion looms over the eligibility of some players to feature in the Kenyan Premier League relegation/promotion play-off pitting Kisumu All Stars against Vihiga United. All Stars are keen to have Michael Owino and Gad Otieno play in the crucial tie this weekend should the government give the go-ahead. The duo were with the club last season but have been snapped up by Gor Mahia and Wazito respectively, throwing their participation in doubt. "It's a tricky situation but the federation assured us that they will be going by last season's squad members regardless of whether they have signed for other clubs." said All Stars' Chief Executive Officer Nicholas Ochieng. Gad confirmed that he is now a Gor Mahia player but had been approached to feature in the playoffs. "Yeah, I have been contacted about the playoff and I intend to inform Gor Mahia about the situation. I am open to play for All Stars in the match against Vihiga," said Gad, who is still training with K'Ogalo but will likely join his former All Stars teammates for the playoff double-header. "It's an important match for All Stars after a tough period for the club but all that will be forgotten if the club retain their Premier League status," added Gad. All Stars have been training in groups in adherence to the government public health protocols. "We have been training in groups but now that the federation has given us notice that the play-off is in the offing, we will resume team sessions at the Moi Stadium, Kisumu," revealed Ochieng. Just like Vihiga, who were being bankrolled by their county government, All Stars too have been reliant on the support of the Kisumu County government. The club has faced financial challenges but Ochieng was optimistic that the situation will improve soon. "The financial challenges the county governments were experiencing across the country been in the public domain," noted Ochieng. " The situation has since improved and we are finalising drafting of contracts which the team will sign this week." All Stars and Vihiga know the importance of winning the playoff to the future of their clubs, particularly in financial terms. With the federation having revealed sponsorship agreements with Betking and StarTimes, top flight clubs are expected to reap handsomely from the deals.