 Governors' wives under the County First Ladies Association has launched a cancer clinic at the Nanyuki Teaching and Referral Hospital in Laikipia county. The clinic was launched on Tuesday under 'empower project' championed by the association. Wives of governors from Makueni, Taita Taveta, Tharaka Nithi, Meru, Muranga, Nyandarua, Kisumu, Bomet, Nandi, Isiolo, Marsabit and Kakamega counties attended the launch. It is expected to aid in the early detection and treatment of patients suffering from breast, cervical and prostate cancer. It will also ease the cost of treatment for patients living with cancer in Laikipia and strengthen the county's healthcare system in dealing with non-communicable diseases while championing universal healthcare. The well-equipped ward set aside for cancer management will be run by already trained personnel from the hospital. Similar clinics have been launched in Kisumu, Meru, Bungoma, Taita Taveta and Makueni counties. First Lady Margaret Kenyatta promised to continue providing free cancer screening services during her Beyond Zero medical tours. “Her Excellency commits to lend her voice and support to initiatives that will steer Kenya to reduce incidents of cancer and mortality as well as improve the quality of life for those who develop the disease,” she said in a message read on her behalf by Beyond Zero coordinator Angela Langat. Kenyatta appreciated the cooperation she has continued to receive from the governors wives who are championing causes that promote better health and wellbeing of women and girls in their respective counties. Maria Mbeneka, wife of Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi, said their association will remain focused on delivering healthcare services to Kenyans especially in the fight against cancer. Mbeneka is the chair of the association. Empower is an acronym that stands for Enabling and Motivating Partnerships Owned by Women who Engage and Reclaim their lives. It draws extensive membership from health advocacy institutions among them Beyond Zero, ROCHE, Women4Cancer, Africa Cancer Foundation and International Cancer Institute. The project aims at contributing to the prevention, detection and treatment of cancer through advocacy, awareness creation and strengthening of the health systems. Kenya currently registers about 40,000 new cases of cancer annually according to the head of the National Cancer Institute Alfred Karagu. About 28,000 patients die each year. Basic treatment for breast cancer costs between Sh175,200 and Sh1.98 million without surgery in private facilities, according to the National Cancer Control Programme. The cost shoots up to between Sh758,000 and Sh2.48 million if surgery is included. 