The relationship between Cabinet Secretaries and senators has been frosty, to say the least. But they held an ice-breaking meeting on Monday at a Nairobi hotel and agreed to mend fences. The Senate has asked Cabinet Secretaries to be more accountable and responsive to queries from senators, including summonses. Addressing reporters after meeting the Senate Liaison Committee, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i - the 'super minister' - said lawmakers had raised concerns over the frosty relationship between them and House members. Matiang’i told reporters he promised to improve the relationship. The Interior CS also chairs the National Development Implementation and Communication Cabinet Committee. President Uhuru Kenyatta, in effect, put him in charge of the Cabinet. “Committee chairs have implored us to cultivate a better working relationship with House members," he said. "We will do our best to meet their demands of us,” Matiang’i said. Present were CSs James Macharia (Transport), Peter Munya (Agriculture), Mutahi Kagwe (Health), Faridah Karoney (Lands), Cecily Kariuki (Water), Eugene Wamalwa (Devolution) and Attorney General Paul Kihara. The Senate was represented by Speaker Ken Lusaka, Abdullahi Ali (Wajir), Johnson Sakaja (Nairobi), Ephraim Maina (Nyeri), Kimani Wamatangi (Kiambu) and Sam Ongeri (Kisii). Lusaka said in the meeting they agreed CSs would work hand in hand with senators to fast-track legislation and safeguard devolution. “We have agreed on various issues, among them cultivating a good working relationship,” he said. Matiang’i said the session was the first time his committee met senators since the Parliamentary leadership changes in May. “All business before the Senate has a bearing on implementation of national development goals,” he said. The meeting agreed to form a joint technical team led by Senate Clerk Michael Sialai to coordinate Senate and Cabinet activities. Matiang'i denied claims the relationship between CSs and senators was at an all-time low. “When we go to Parliament, it is not a favour but a duty. If there are any delays in us appearing before members, it could be because we want to do a thorough job or get more information,” he said. On March 4, a parliamentary committee threatened to sanction three CSs for allegedly snubbing summonses for them to explain the country’s preparedness for the Covid-19 pandemic. Members of the parliamentary committee on Health took issue with Matiang’i, Kagwe and Macharia for what they called treating the coronavirus issue casually. They demanded an explanation why the three could not appear before them. The lawmakers were led by Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege (National Assembly, Health) and Trans Nzoia Senator Michael Mbito (Senate, Health). They threatened to report Macharia, Matiang’i and Kagwe to Speakers Justin Muturi (National Assembly) and Lusaka (Senate) for gross misconduct. The National Assembly’s Standing Order 191 grants committees the powers and privileges spelt out in the Constitution and other laws. They includes the power to summon any person under Article 125 of the Constitution to give evidence or provide information. They also have powers similar to those of the High Court to enforce the attendance of witnesses, including CSs. The same rules state that when a summoned witness does not appear or appears but fails to satisfy the committee, the House or committee may impose a fine of as much as Sh500,000. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi is on record telling committees to stop "pampering rogue" CSs and instead notify his office so it can take action against them. (Edited by V. Graham)