President Uhuru Kenyatta leads Kenyans in this year’s Mashujaa Day celebrations at the Gusii Stadium on Tuesday. Uhuru is expected to continue his call for unity and cohesion in the country while at a proxy war with his deputy William Ruto. The President is faced with a political headache as he unites with his former political rivals at the expense of his union with Ruto. Many Kenyans will be watching how the two leaders treat each other publicly and will keenly follow their speeches for any verbal cues. Uhuru and Ruto came together ahead of the 2013 elections but their relationship has deteriorated since 2018 when the President united with ODM leader Raila Odinga. East African Legislative Assembly member Oburu Oginga has told Deputy President William Ruto to deal with his frustrations and stop abusing his perceived rivals and imaginary enemies. Oburu reminded the DP that he is not his age-mate and told him to direct his taunts elsewhere. ODM leader Raila Odinga has not declared his interest in the 2022 race, but Ruto perceives him as his main challenger. On Sunday, Ruto said he would win the 2022 presidential election even if Oburu, the elder brother of Raila, is appointed as the chairman of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. Ruto added that Raila has no clue about forming a government. The family of a patient who Karen Hospital claimed had been abandoned over Sh23 Million medical bill now says they never disappeared as alleged. Jacklyne Mutaki walked into Karen Hospital on February 16 last year for an elective CS but never left the theatre the same person as it is alleged that she developed a complication that has left her in a vegetative state. The husband now says Karen Hospital should take liability for his wife’s health because of its negligence that led to her current state. However, in court, Karen Hospital wants Jacklyne to be transferred to a public hospital possibly KNH or home-based care due to the accrued medical bill that the family cannot afford. Parliament is in a race against time to enact three laws with serious impact on the country’s 2022 politics. MPs last Thursday approved a Bill appointing a panel to recruit commissioners to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. IEBC has three commissioners in the post, staging a quorum challenge that has denied it powers to make major decisions. The Justice and Legal Affairs Committee has equally seized of the Judicial Service (Amendment) Bill, 2020 which seeks to streamline transition at the Supreme Court. It provides for the recruitment of a Chief Justice to begin six months before the incumbent leaves office. Two Committees are expected to hold sittings this Wednesday to harmonize the two referendum Bills before the House. Women leaders have issued what they term as irreducible minimums ahead of the much-anticipated launch of the Building Bridges Initiative report. Under the umbrella Embrace, the women leaders warned against any attempts to take away the gender gains they are already enjoying in the current arrangement. Led by Kirinyaga Governor Ann Waiguru, the leaders cited the seats of 47 woman representatives, which they noted should not be scrapped as rumoured. Without specifying any course of action should the BBI team recommends scrapping of 47 Woman Representative seats, the women leaders vowed they will not take lightly any efforts to claw back the gender gains.