Two rival groups within Mount Kenya region are fighting for recognition as the official Kikuyu council of elders. One camp is led by Wachira Kiago while the other group is led by Samuel Kimani Maigua. Both claim to be bonafide Kikuyu council of elders' national chairman. Wachira on Saturday led a group of elders to ODM leader Raila Odinga's home in Bondo. None of the elders from Maigua's group attended. Wachira’s group operates at Homeland lounge along Thika road just opposite Garden City Mall. But Maigua who leads the other faction is based in Nakuru. His secretary-general  Stephen Karua is based in Kiambu while treasurer Simon Gichuru is based in Murang’ a county. The group's patron is Peter Njenga who is spearheading BBI. Speaking to Star on Monday by phone, Maigua said that they were duly registered in February 2010 by the Registrar of Societies. “This group was registered by the late Njenga Karume who was the first chairman in 2010. Our sole mandate is to unite the community. We are contemplating all means including going to court to sue Wachira Kiago of misusing our name,” Maigua said. He claimed that the group that went to Bondo over the weekend is registered as a community-based organisation in Embakasi and it should not carry its mandate beyond the registered area. According to Mount Kenya Foundation Lawyer Kevin Kariuki who doubles as the council CEO for Maigua, Wachira should issue an apology for misleading the community. “We are exploring all the means including going to court. The integrity of the council must be protected,” he said. But Wachira denied the claims of misleading the community and maintained that his group was the true one. He said his group also has a registration certificate. “We are the true owners of the title. We are registered as a trust and nothing will stop us from executing our mandate,” he said. Wachira claimed that they aren't misusing the council as they are extending the handshake that was initiated by former Prime Minister Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta. “I would request them (Maigua group) to reach out to our office before heading to court. Moving to court will display the community as divided. There are several ways we can use to solve the issue,” he said. He denied the claims on social media that they were paid to visit Raila's homestead. “There are several claims on social media that we were paid to endorse Raila but it’s false. We were trying to unite Kikuyu and Luo communities for the sake of peace. Those claiming that we were paid should produce evidence,” Wachira said. Kikuyu musician and Kikuyu council member Kamande wa Kioi have urged the two camps to stop engaging into fights and unite the community. Kamande, a close ally to President Kenyatta and William Ruto has warned the community's leadership against creating a wedge among members just one year to the general election. “The community's leadership should sit down and agree on each mandate. Both camps led by Kiago and Maigua as well as Kiama Kiama, the unity of the community is better, any attempt to divide it should be condemned,” he said. Mount Kenya politician and the New Democrats Party national chairman Thuo Mathenge has warned leaders of engaging in petty politics. “Let us unite the community. The divisive politics will do us more harm and we might find ourselves as community unprepared,” he said, urging elders to give Uhuru ample time to deliver to the nation and to write his legacy.