Kemsa has resumed medical supplies to Narok hospitals after the county government cleared 90 per cent of its pending bills to the authority. Narok started getting supplies from the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority after it was blacklisted three years ago owing to unpaid bills. The county government paid Sh104 million to the authority, 90 per cent of the total outstanding debt it owed Kemsa. County pharmacist Dan Ngere said they will settle the remaining Sh12.8 million debt. “We are happy to resume buying HPTs from Kemsa after repaying our debt,”  Dr Ngere said. He said the county has committed to procuring all non-pharmaceutical and pharmaceutical commodities from Kemsa, citing the authority's efficient supplies to the doorsteps of all hospitals. The county has procured medical commodities worth more than Sh400,000.  Lolgorian health centre in Transmara West and Ololulunga health centre in Narok South have already received their orders. Supplies to the Narok County Referral Hospital will be delivered next week. Ngere asked Kemsa to increase supplies to the theatre, renal and dental care units, which he said are crucial for the achievement of universal healthcare. “Narok county will exploit this window to maximise stocks for its facilities to address common ailments, lifestyle diseases for middle-aged people and maternity services,” he said. He lauded the 45-day credit period offered by the authority, saying it has given them ample time to meet their obligations. Ngere also praised Kemsa for upgrading the online ordering and consumption-reporting system, which enables counties to keep track of their supply orders and receive pro forma invoices and statements in real-time. Kemsa acting CEO Edward Njoroge praised the Narok county government for clearing its pending bills. He said the authority will continue to ensure that all counties have uninterrupted access to HPTs. Njoroge said Kemsa will continue to engage with the National Treasury, the Ministry of Health, the Council of Governors and the Senate to exert pressure on counties to prioritise clearing pending bills. He said they have had engagements with counties and agreed on repayment timelines. “The authority has offered a credit period of 45 days. We will continue to release supplies to the counties because they have agreed to honour the deal,” Njoroge said. The CEO said Kemsa understands delays in cash disbursement to counties and will continue to advocate for payment plans with a continuous supply of commodities.  Edited by P.O