Radio presenter and media personality Jalang'o has bagged himself an ambassadorial deal with Mwananchi Credit Limited. During the tenure, Mwananchi Credit will use Jalango’s image rights as well as influencer services to grow the brand for a one-year renewable period. Over the last 10 years, Mwananchi Credit Ltd has grown from a one-man lending shop with a loan book of only Sh30,000 to the leading logbook and civil servants loans provider in Kenya with over seven branches and 200 employees. The company has won numerous awards, including Best Logbook Loan Provider in Kenya. Jalang’o has risen from zero, basically using his talents, hard work, and relentless determination to rise to the top of Kenya’s entertainment scene. “With a big dream, we simply discovered that there was an opportunity for a fairly priced micro-lending platform for the masses who struggled to assess mainstream financing at fair rates," Mwananchi founder and CEO Dennis Mombo said. "A decade later, with consistency and loyal clientele built over the years, the company has grown by leaps and bounds.” From a humble background in Homa Bay, Jalang’o is now a popular radio presenter at Kiss100, a sought-after events MC as well as a comedian of note. “Jalang’o represents the brand we stand for as Mwananchi Credit. Jalang’o’s story is Mwananchi’s story,” Mombo said, adding, “That if you dare dream big dreams, audacious enough to scare you, and wake up, work hard to realize those same dreams. Soon the world becomes your stage, and success your synonym.” Mombo says emergency loans are sometimes very serious discussions to have and having someone with Jalang’o’s kind of humour, to break it down into simplified chunks, may be helpful in Mwananchi Credit’s endeavour to become the most accessible loans provider in the country “This is a lovely opportunity to represent a brand that invests in the growth of people. I look forward to a lovely engagement with Mwananchi Credit Limited,” Jalang’o said. Besides being a leading logbook loans provider Mwananchi Credit has a suite of other micro-finance lending products. It has branches in Nairobi (2), Kitengela, Mombasa, Thika, Kisumu, and Eldoret with plans to open more across the country In July, Jalang'o declared that he will be on the ballot box in 2022. Speaking on Mpasho Live, Jalango said he will vie for Lang'ata MP seat. "You are speaking to the MP of Lang'ata," he said. "There are only three years to go and I will be the MP," he said.