An MP from Mt Kenya has said they will use all the resources available to them to ensure the BBI goes through. The MP allied to Kieleweke faction of Jubilee said the country is in a constitutional moment and changes to the Constitution are required to ensure Kenyans are served better. Kiambaa MP Paul Koinange who attended a meeting in Mombasa on Saturday said the BBI initiative will promote nationalism. “This will form part of the legacy of President Uhuru Kenyatta,” the MP said in a statement. The BBI report will be launched on Monday at the Bomas of Kenya. Koinange urged Kenyans to read the document carefully and internalise it. “Anyone who carefully reads the document and internalises it will realise the it is only after the interest of Kenyans,” Koinange said at Moi International Airport in Mombasa. The Kiambaa MP said the BBI promotes inclusivity, equity and empowerment of all Kenyans. Proponents of the BBI say it will end electoral and ethnic violence among different communities experienced every five years during the electioneering period. Koinange said the document enhances the fight against corruption. For far too long, he said, corrupt individuals working in cahoots with some corrupt advocates and judicial officers have been using the judicial system to fight the war on graft. “The proposal in the BBI report to have all corruption-related court cases concluded within two years of inception is thus timely and extremely welcome,” Koinange said. He said this will ensure the courts are no longer used to protect corrupt individuals and their ill-gotten wealth. The working relationship between the DCI and the DPP will also be strengthened and harmonised to ensure an efficient criminal justice system. The MPs noted relevant amendments to the laws will bring to an end the bad culture of government accounting officers delaying payment for goods and services rendered in order to extort the suppliers. With the proposals in the BBI, all payments by both levels of government will be made within 60 days, failure to which the relevant accounting officer will be severely punished. “Prompt payment for goods and services supplied to the various government entities will bring about the much-desired market competition and unleash the huge business potential of our enterprising people while ensuring that the government gets value for money,” Koinange said. The BBI will see the elevation of the Independent Police Oversight Authority to a full constitutional commission to enhance police accountability in order to ensure no police officer abuses their authority, the MP noted. “This will help, to a large extent, eliminate the excesses associated with some rogue police officers,” the Kambaa MP said. Edited by Henry Makori