Members of the County Assembly have pledged to put aside individual interests and differences and work as one for speedy service delivery. They want to rebuild their notorious "chaotic" image to a united house to deliver services to Nairobi residents effectively, according to Speaker Benson Mutura. "With less than two years remaining, let's as a house with both elected and nominated MCAs, avoid fighting each other and deliver what is expected of us," Mutura said. The former Makadara member of Parliament was addressing his first capacity building forum since he was elected speaker in August after former speaker Beatrice Elachi resigned citing "lots of conflicts" and "life-threatening incidents". The meeting was held at the weekend in Mombasa and attended by more than 50 MCAs and assembly staff. Minority leader Michael Ogada called on the assembly to embrace the new leadership and refrain from internal wrangles. "Let us put our differences aside regardless of party affiliation or personal opinions on individuals and work together as an assembly of purpose," Ogada said. His Majority colleague Abdi Hassan Guyo urged the assembly staff to keep off politics. "As much as we are one in the assembly, staff should not get involved in politics whatsoever. Let everyone know why they are in the assembly and stick to their mandate," he said. Guyo told the County Assembly Service Board to identify and discipline staff likely to ignite "internal wrangles" which result in division among MCAs. The assembly promised to come up with a cordial working relationship with both the Nairobi Metropolitan Services and City Hall. The MCAs decried the wrangling between the NMS and the Mike Sonko administration and proposed a meeting between the and the two entities. "Nairobi is unique because it's like we have two governments one led by Governor Sonko and the other by Major-General Mohamed Badi. Both are handling functions that offer important services to city residents," County Assembly Board member Mark Ndung'u said. The County Assembly has been notorious for chaos and wrangles associated with differences between the offices of the clerk and the speaker. The latest was in July with police called to restore order seen brutalising Mlango Kubwa ward representantive Patricia Mutheu. A video of her being beaten and dragged on the floor by four armed police officers went viral, drawing the wrath of not only Nairobians but Kenyans in general.    - mwaniki fm 