MPs now want the EACC and the DCI to conduct a thorough probe into all the 83 companies that benefitted from the Kemsa billions supplies. This is even as Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji returned the Kemsa file to the anti-graft agency to tie the loose ends in the investigations into multi-billion tenders. The Star on Friday established that among the loopholes Haji wants EACC sleuths to address is the businessmen who won billions in the questionable tender deals but were all left out in the report. The EACC – according to sources – had narrowed down only on top Kemsa officials leaving out the merchants who were the huge beneficiaries of the procurement mess. Sources at the DPP office say some of the businessmen should be in the prosecution list alongside Kemsa top brass. As if reading from the same script, the National Assembly Health Committee on Thursday tabled a report before the House where amongst other recommendations sought thorough investigations of all the 83 companies contracted to supply PPE to the graft-ridden Kemsa. “The Director of Criminal Investigations and Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission undertake in-depth investigations of any irregularities on all companies including the eighty-three (83) companies that were awarded tenders by the Authority with regards to the disputed Covid-19 procurement,” the committee chaired by Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege noted in its report. “Institute relevant action against those companies found to have contravened the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Act, 2015 and any other applicable laws,” the report said. The committee was probing the alleged procurement mess at the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority. The Sabina-led team also wants companies found to have contravened the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Act, 2015 and engaged in malpractices be blacklisted and barred from doing business with any government entity. The team also wants the Registrar of Companies and the Kenya Revenue Authotrity to within 60 days conduct an audit on the companies compliance to the Companies Act, 2017 and tax compliance status respectively and appropriate action taken against any entity found culpable. “Kenya Medical Supplies Authority upon conclusion of the investigation by Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and in line with relevant laws undertake steps to resolve the issue of stocks delivered to Kemsa without regard to due procedures,” the report reads in part. “However, no payments should be made for goods irregularly procured and recovery of assets undertaken as per relevant laws for irregular payments.” Some of the companies the authority engaged to make the supplies include Cown Healthcare, Megascope Healthcare Kenya Limited, Ms. Shop ‘’N’’ Buy Kenya, Encarter diagnostics Ltd, Komtel Kenya Ltd, Tronz Kenya Ltd, Meraky Health Care, Nanopay Limited, Wallabis Ventures Limited, Aszure Commercial Services Ltd, Purma Holdings Ltd, Briema Grains Stores, Ziwala Ltd, Villa Surgical and Equipment Limted and AGI. Others are ABSA Chemicals Ltd, Medilife Biologicals, Tripple Age Investment Ltd, Everywhere distributors Ltd and Thermosystems E.A Ltd among others. Edited by EKibii