Health PS Susan Mochache has defended the government’s decision to allocate Sh268 million to the Kenya Red Cross Society to train community health volunteers. Appearing before the Senate Standing Committee on Health, Mochache said the ministry did not have the capacity to conduct the training and assured that all the arrangements were within the law. “We could not conduct the training because have a skeleton staff. We also did not sideline county governments in the programme. We planned with counties and supervision was done by them,” she said. Mochache said the ministry picked KRCS because it has the capacity and networks across the country. Last week, the House committee sent away Health Chief Administrative Secretary Mercy Mwangangi and asked Mochache to appear before it over the matter. Mwangangi had told the committee the ministry signed an MOU with with Red Cross to support sensitisation of existing CHVs and training of new ones towards the roll out of the Universal Health Care. Senators questioned why the ministry gave KRSC the money and whether there was a legal framework. On Tuesday, Mochache noted that as part of complementing the government, an agreement between KRCS and the MOH was signed on March 13 to support efforts towards achieving UHC. “The goal of the agreement was to work with the Division of Community Health in sensitisation of 61,300 community health volunteers in the existing community health units in the 47 counties countrywide and facilitate training of 31,187 new CHV on basic and technical community health strategy packages in line with the UHC roadmap,” she said. Narok Senator Ledama Olekina had questioned why counties were not involved yet health is a devolved function. “Why choose to use the Kenya Red Cross Society to carry out a role of devolved function? This is something counties should have been allowed to do,” he stated. Wajir Senator Abdullahi Ali said leaving out counties when signing the MOU with the KRCS created suspicion about the programme. Mochache said the ministry was in charge of ensuring delivery of technical training through its expert trainers on the ground in the 47 counties. She added that KRCS had the role of providing logistical and administrative facilitation to ensure smooth delivery of the trainings in the 47 counties. “KRCS contributed Sh14.4 million towards implementation of the community health project funded by the Ministry of Health. The total budget was Sh281.8 million which the ministry contributed Sh268 million, being 94 per cent of the total budget,” the PS said. She added that the ministry also provided the technical support through the counties to train the CHVs. Mochache noted that KRCS supported county coordinators to organise training venues and logistical support of the national and county health teams to supervise the trainings. “KRCS attached vehicles to each of the counties to support local supervisory movements by the national and county health teams. KRCS also facilitated movement of all national officers to counties via vehicles or mileage reimbursements for those who used their means,” she said. All payments for allowances were processed and made via M-Pesa, she added. Edited by Henry Makori