A man who has been behind bars for nine years for defiling his 15-year-old daughter wants the court to order a retrial after the daughter confessed to lying in court. JWM was sentenced to life imprisonment for incest he committed in 2011 but his daughter has since come out saying that she was coerced by her mother to frame her father. The man has waged a nine-year battle to prove his innocence. He wants the constitutional court to order a fresh trial, where the recanted evidence will be considered. JWM has told court that he is serving a life sentence for a crime he never committed. He maintains that he was maliciously prosecuted because his ex-wife planned to frame him after she found out that he had remarried. He says that she threatened to kill him on numerous occasions. On one occasion she sent her son to poison his second wife’s drinking water. All his appeals have been dismissed, with the latest being last year at the Court of Appeal. The judges ruled that they could not admit his daughter's recanted evidence because they were only dealing with matters of law. His daughter, now 24, and her sister have sworn affidavits exonerating their father from the offence. At the trial, his two daughters who were the only people in the house with him, told court that he defiled the 15-year-old. The younger daughter who was 10 years old at the time also testified against her father. JWM and the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights have filed the case at the Machakos Constitutional Court hoping to get a retrial. “That despite the recanted testimony of my daughter who made it clear that she gave false testimony against me, I continue to serve my imprisonment term for an offence I conscientiously swear I did not ever commit,” JWM says. JWM says his daughter explained that she was coached by her mother, who is his estranged wife, to testify against him with the sole purpose of seeing to it that he was  convicted, thus paving way for her to sell his land in Kavisuni, Yatta, Machakos county. He narrates how in 2015 his daughter went to see him in prison and confessed to him that she had framed him and asked for his forgiveness for what she did to him. However, her recanted testimony has not secured him freedom over five years since she gave it. “DM explained conscientiously that her father never committed the crime of incest against her and the prosecution against him was totally malicious, a sham and a hoax which she regrettably cooperated with for fear of perils threatened by her mother on whom she was dependent and the friends who were helping her in this malicious enterprise,” read court documents. DM told court that she was compelled to do what she did because it was her mother who was taking care of them. “I am now staying alone since my father was imprisoned and I do not know where my mother is,” she added. JWM tells court that this new and compelling piece of evidence was not available to him during the time of his trial and first appeal when it would have helped him, so he wants the court to order a retrial. “That I am advised by my advocate on record, which advice I verily believe to be true, that by virtue of Article 50 (6) of the Constitution, a party who discovers new and compelling evidence has the right to petition this honourable court for a retrial,” JWM argues. The DPP has strongly opposed a retrial, saying the daughter’s recanted evidence should not be admitted. Senior assistant DPP Felister Njeru argued that the daughter recanted her evidence because of the hardships that she is going through while her father is in prison. “The breaking point was due to the hardships she has undergone since her father was imprisoned, not because of the alleged guilt of giving false testimony against her dad. This taints the credibility of the entire evidence,” Njeru argued.