Kenya expects to receive thousands of doses of the first Covid-19 vaccines to be licensed, probably early next year. At least half of the country's population would need to be injected to achieve the required population immunity. But the Ministry of Health is now grappling with the reality that some people will refuse to take the vaccine and conspiracy theories around the programme might grow. The ministry says such scepticism may affect uptake, and is ready to engage with people who hesitate or refuse to be vaccinated. "If I tell you I have vial from Oxford, who will volunteer to take a jab? There's a lot of work to be done on vaccine readiness across Kenya. This is the work that remains going forward," Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi said. Vaccine hesitancy in Kenya is largely religious, driven by old rumours of secret sterilisation. This is the rumour that delayed the tetanus vaccine rollout in 2014 and threatened the HPV vaccine rollout in 2019. In 2014, the WHO issued a statement to assure Kenyans that the tetanus vaccine was safe. “The vaccine has been used in 52 countries to immunise 130 million women to protect them and their newborn babies from tetanus. There is no hCG hormone in tetanus toxoid vaccines.” Dr Mwangangi said communication was key. She was speaking at a symposium on Covid-19 hosted by Aga Khan University in Nairobi. "Our communications should not instil fear it should touch on advantages of following government measures," she said. Kenya will pay about Sh200 per dose of the vaccine and donors the balance of Sh100. Each dose will cost a maximum Sh300 and experts say two doses are likely to be required. The cost-sharing decision was announced by Gavi, the Geneva-based Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation. It is leading a programme to secure Covid-19 vaccines for developing countries. Gavi said cost-sharing would promote country ownership of the vaccine access programme and motivate support from new donors such as development banks. At least nine vaccine candidates, if successfully registered, will be supported through the access programme called the Covid-19 Vaccines Advance Market Commitment (Covax AMC). The ceiling $3 (Sh300) per dose is already heavily subsidised by earlier $150 million funding from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.