Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos has expressed happiness after the Senate and the Auditor General cleared him of claims of graft and stalling Sh500 million projects. “We appeared before the Senate and answered all queries on projects and other operations in the county to the satisfaction of the senators," Tolgos said. Tolgo, his deputy and other top officials appeared before the Senate Public Accounts and Investments Committee on Thursday after being summoned over stalled projects in 2017-18. “We are also happy the Auditor Aeneral assessed the projects in question and presented an independent report to the Senate," Tolgos said in Iten town. After lengthy questioning by the watchdog committee Tolgos was absolved of blame and senators said they were satisfied with answer from the governor's team. The senatos noted the Auditor General's report said there was value for monity in projects that initially had raised queres about graft because of delays. Projects included the stalled construction of the governor's residence at Kamariny Stadium. It consumed more than Sh13 million before it was terminated over an uproar  over alleged corruption. The total cost was to be Sh35 million. Others projects included delays in construction of subcounty offices in Chesoi and Chepkorio areas. Tolgos' administration was required to furnish the house committee with  information regarding  the delay in project implementation. Tolgos said construction of governor's residence at Kamariny stalled more than three years ago due political interference and litigation. The committee was also informed that project implementation in 2016-17 in parts of Endo and Kapyego suffered occasional delays as a result of insecurity in the volatile borders. PAIC chairman Proffessor Sam Ongeri said the purpose of his committee is to ventilate audit queries presented by the Auditor General and also to scrutinise them. "We are not a confrontational committee aiming to reduce governors to nothing whenever they appear before us to answer to audit queries," Ongeri said. He said the committee was finally satisfied with all the answers. Senator Ochilo Ayako said," I am happy that the auditor general has largely agreed with your report.: The Migori senator commended Tolgos' delegation, saying: "When I see the officials from this county I see a lot of potential. I think you are better than other governors who are surrounded by retirees. Retirees are people who should join us in politics." Tolgos who is serving his second term said he would concentrate on completing major projects ahead of his exit from office. (Edited by V. Graham)