President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday for the first time spoke of his relationship with his deputy William Ruto. There has been a perception that the two no longer see eye to eye especially since Uhuru’s handshake with ODM leader Raila Odinga. While thanking the DP for his support on the handshake and the BBI process, Uhuru said Ruto has been impatient and started running in the wrong direction towards 2022. Uhuru made light of the situation saying that Ruto was supposed to be standing in line in a relay but got too impatient and started running towards the one who was to hand him the baton. According to Uhuru, the DP had forgotten about the work they were to do and started his 2022 campaigns. Deputy President William Ruto on Monday set the tone for his opposition on the BBI report outlining the issues that he was uncomfortable with. Ruto used the launch of the report at the Bomas of Kenya to outline the things he described as retrogressive. Despite facing a hostile crowd that at one point heckled him, Ruto said that the proposal for the President to appoint the Judiciary Ombudsman was retrogressive. He also questioned how the IEBC would be a fair referee if a few political parties were allowed to select the commissioners. Ruto also questioned the rationale of scrapping the Woman Rep positions and weakening the Senate. Deputy President William Ruto’s allies have suffered a major blow in their push for alternative questions or options in the Building Bridges Initiative referendum. Through the Referendum Bill (No2), 2020, they sought to provide for other options beyond the referendum question, which requires a ‘Yes’ and ‘No’ answer. The bill sponsored by Baringo South MP William Cheptumo – then as chair of the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee, was hailed as a check card to the President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga-led process. His bid, which followed after the Constitution Implementation Oversight Committee published a bill on the same, was that a referendum could be initiated through an Act of Parliament. In this regard, where more than one draft bill was to be submitted to the people for a vote, each of the bills was to constitute an option with a separate symbol and answer. ODM leader Raila Odinga on Monday denied he has declared interest in the 2022 presidential race. The former prime minister said at no point had he made such a declaration. This was in reference to reports in the Standard newspaper. Raila said his focus was on delivering the Building Bridges Initiative, whose report was officially unveiled at the Bomas of Kenya on Monday. The ODM leader welcomed the BBI outcome as a gift he and President Uhuru Kenyatta would want to bequeath Kenya’s future generations. He said there was a need to give the Jubilee administration time to deliver its agenda to Kenyans before sending the country into a campaign mode. In this regard, the ODM leader said he would be uncomfortable with a situation where the BBI campaigns would result into a ‘No’ and ‘Yes’ camps. Tononoka Secondary School principal Mohammed Khamis who died from Covid-19 complications was buried at Kikowani cemetery Monday afternoon. Khamis had been admitted to the intensive care unit at Coast General Hospital. He was there for five days after testing positive for the virus. At the weekend, the Health ministry conducted random tests for students, teachers and support staff in affected institutions, including Tononoka, Star of the Sea High School and Mama Ngina High School. Results of the tests have, however, not been made public. Last week, Mombasa county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo said the school had 11 confirmed cases, while more samples had been taken. The principal had been tested in school. The other 10 cases are receiving treatment at home.