Truck drivers have told the government to review the Covid-19 testing calendar from the current 14 to 30 days. They say some of them spend more than 14 days between Mombasa and Kampala or South Sudan and their certificates expire before they return to Kenya. Expiry of the certificates while in Uganda or Sudan means they have to be tested in Uganda where it costs at least Sh6,500. "Testing after every 14 days is such a short time,” one trucker, who identified himself as Senator Mshamba, told the Star in Amagoro, five kilometres East of Malaba town. “I tested in Mombasa and my certificate is almost expiring, yet I have not even crossed the border. Testing itself is not easy. Some drivers nosebleed as their samples are taken.” He said if the cargo he is transporting to Kampala will take two days to offload, he will be forced to get tested in Uganda because his certificate will have expired. In September, Uganda introduced a Covid-19 testing fee of about Sh6,500 to a special category of people, including truckers. Uganda’s Ministry of Health said then that the levy was due to an increase in the number of people testing for the coronavirus. Uganda accounts for 83.2 per cent of transit cargo from the Port of Mombasa through the Northern Corridor, followed by South Sudan which takes 9.9 per cent, DR Congo (7.2 per cent), Tanzania (3.2 per cent) and Rwanda (2.4 per cent). This means a Covid-19 testing fee announced by Uganda will affect a sizable amount of cargo in transit. “My appeal to the Kenyan government is to introduce a system where drivers are tested after 30 days and not the present 14 days because there are drivers who spend the 14 days between Mombasa and Kampala or Kigali or Juba in South Sudan. In Uganda, testing is expensive,” Mshamba said. He said police should also stop plucking off registration number plates from trucks whose drivers fall asleep while on the road, saying the act had become rampant on the Bungoma-Malaba highway. “Let the government listen to us. We have constantly complained about this road, but our pleas fall on deaf ears,” he said. Alex Wambua, who plies the Mombasa-Kampala route, said testing should be done after 30 days although he called on his colleagues in the sector to follow guidelines meant to limit the spread of the virus. “Let testing time be reviewed to 30 days to allow drivers to reach their destinations before their certificates expire,” Wambua said. He questioned the authorities at the Malaba border why it takes longer for vehicles to be cleared and allowed to cross into Uganda when their drivers already have Covid-19-negative certificates. The traffic snarl-up formed by cargo trucks on the Bungoma-Malaba highway stretches for 20 kilometres. “For my case, I have already tested and I have my certificate. My truck has also been cleared, why can’t I be allowed to proceed with the journey. I have been stuck in this jam for the last three days? Government officers at the border should explain to us why vehicles are not moving,” Wambua lamented. “There are my colleagues who spend 11 days between Mombasa and Bungoma before joining the trucks queue where they spend an extra four days. By the time they reach Kampala or Juba, the 14 are over. We petition that the testing period be reviewed from 14 days to 30 or 25 days.” He blamed corruption among customs officials for the delayed clearance. “If I left here with my Covid-19-negative certificate and vehicle clearance documents, they will arrest me and pluck off the vehicle number plate.” Wambua said if border officials hastened the movement of trucks across the border, there would be no queues on the highway and truckers would reach their destinations within two weeks.