After nearly a decade away from the Harambee Stars touchline, celebrated tactician Jacob 'Ghost' Mulee is now the most likely candidate to replace Francis Kimanzi, who was sacked on Tuesday. Football Kenya Federation bosses are understood to have settled on the Radio Jambo morning show 'Giddi na Ghost' host. FKF said Kimanzi and his backroom staff on mutual consent and that the hunt for a replacement is on. “The federation is immensely grateful to coach Kimanzi and his departing members of staff that include assistant coach Zedekiah Otieno and goalkeeper trainer Lawrence Webo for their exemplary work, dedication and unrivaled professionalism, which has strengthened Kenya’s chances of qualifying for the Afcon 2022 final tournament,” said Football Kenya Federation in a letter signed by General Secretary Barry Otieno A source close to the ongoings at Kandanda House revealed that Mulee, who has led the team on four previous occasions, was initially facing competition for the job from Bandari technical director Twahir Muhiddin and Biashara United head coach and former international Francis Baraza. Former assistant coach Musa Otieno was also linked with the job but, according to the new line-up, the former skipper will work with Mulee as his assistant in the new set up. Mulee made his coaching debut at the national team in 2003 and would lead the team to the following year's  Africa Cup of Nations finals staged in Tunisia. He was briefly re-appointed in 2005 and 2007 with his last appearance being the December 2010 Cecafa Senior Challenge. “We have resolved to hire Mulee as the new Stars coach. He is qualified enough to lead the team in achieving the set targets. We are likely to unveil him in the course of the week as there are important assignments coming up,” said the source. The source hinted that the renown football commentator had opted to work with Otieno and Kariobangi Sharks head coach William Muluya as his assistants. Mulee's first major assignment will be next month's Afcon qualifier double-header against Comoros. Stars are winless in Pool 'B' of the qualifiers after recording identical one-all draws against record champions Egypt and Togo in the opening two matches. “We gave him the free hand to choose his backroom staff where he settled on Muluya and Musa,” added the source. Meanwhile, prior to his exit, Kimanzi who took over the reigns in August last year following the exit of his boss Sebastien Migne had overseen 10 matches where he registered five wins against Zambia, twice against Tanzania, Zanzibar and Sudan. He led Stars in sharing spoils against Togo, Egypt and Uganda and lost to Eritrea and Mozambique. The former Mathare United tactician had also taken charge of the team between November 2008 to January 2009 and November 2011 to June 2012.