Johnson Onono scored C minus in KCSE exam but his dream of becoming a banker is now in tatters. Onono, a 21-year-old orphan living with a disability, is from Ebusakami sub-location in Luanda, Vihiga county. He is keen to continue his education but lack of funds and other essentials stands in his way. Onono has appealed to Governor Wilber Ottichilo, the National Council for Persons with Disabilities (NCPWD) and other well-wishers to come to his rescue. He was diagnosed with muscular dystrophy in 2015. Onono had been in the care of Victory Christian School for the Disabled in Kisumu. He says the school was supportive but they only offer assistance for primary and secondary school learners. Despite his disability and financial problems, he hopes to proceed to college so he can achieve his dream. He expected to join Sigalagala Polytechnic this year but this was halted by the Covid-19 crisis. "I applied for accounting in Sigalagala Polytechnic but because of the coronavirus outbreak, I couldn't go," he said. "Again, I need to rely on someone totally, 100 per cent, for my personal activities," he added. He currently stays with his uncle, Joseph Okwiri. Okwiri said his nephew's disability is not congenital. “In 2013 when the boy was in Standard 6, he developed a complication, which we didn’t recognise on time for treatment. “The boy just started falling down and he would just complain of muscle pull. The problem extended and sometimes he could take like 10 to 20 minutes before he woke up, so this worried us and we had to take him for a medical checkup in Kisumu. “I am jobless and the boy needs help to achieve his dreams of becoming a bank manager,” Okwiri said. Medics could not diagnose the problem at the time, so they permitted the boy to return home. But his condition worsened in 2015 and he suffered paralysis. Muscular dystrophy refers to a group of inherited diseases that damage and weaken muscles over time as abnormal genes interfere with the production of proteins needed to form healthy muscle. “The boy has been receiving medication at Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital in Kisumu under the support of Victory Christian School in Dunga, Kisumu, but so far no changes have been registered,” Okwiri said. Okwiri called for help. “We have tried several times to apply for help from the NCPWD but no success has been achieved so far,” he said.