Prisons across the country might be put under partial lockdown if the rate of Covid-19 infection among inmates surge, the Health Ministry has said. Health CAS Rashid Aman said Thursday that 215 inmates at the GK main prison in Nairobi have been put under quarantine. The government had on Tuesday directed that no more remandees be admitted to the Nairobi Remand Prison after 35 positive cases were recorded at the facility. "It is a matter the national emergency response committee led by the Health CS [Mutahi Kagwe] and the top leadership across the government is dealing with,” the CAS said. “These measures could be extended to other prisons and institutions should the need become apparent.” The ministry directed the Prisons Department, the Police Service and the courts to deal with the matter so the criminal justice system is not disrupted. Under lockdown, the movement of persons in and out of the prisons will be strictly limited until the situation is contained. On Thursday 251 more people tested positive for the coronavirus from a sample size of 5,034. The caseload is now 40,178. The ministry has so far tested 569,678 samples since March. Recoveries from Covid-19 in the country have hit 31,710 after 51 more patients were declared free of the virus on Thursday. Some 22 patients were from the home-based care programme while 29 were discharged from hospitals. The youngest patient was a one-year-old, with the oldest being 83 years. From the cases, 242 are Kenyans and 29 are foreigners; 177 were men and 94 women. Three more patients died, raising fatalities to 751. “Over the last two weeks, we have witnessed an unusual pattern in the manner in which the virus has been spreading across the country,” the CAS said. Several counties that had been recording low cases like Trans Nzoia have begun to report higher numbers, he said. Nairobi recorded 81 out of the total 251 cases followed by Mombasa with 58, Turkana 16, Kisumu 15, Garissa and Kiambu 13, Kisii and Machakos 10, Laikipia eight, Nandi and Nakuru six each. Other counties that recorded new cases include Uasin Gishu, Kilifi, and Murang’a with five, Nyamira and Siaya with four, Kakamega, Kajiado and Kwale with two while Migori, Homa Bay, Embu, Narok and Meru recorded one case each. Aman said that the rise in cases should be a wake-up call for everyone. Efforts must be intensified to curtail the spread of the virus before it overruns health facilities in the country, he added. Aman said the ministry and other stakeholders are working on solving the Kenya- Uganda stalemate being experienced by truckers at the Busia and Malaba borders. He said long queues of trucks were a risk to the local communities and was having an impact on health and trade.