 ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi was at the weekend touted as the man who can effectively lead Kenya out of its problems in 2022. An added feather to his wings is that he is the political kingpin of the Luhya community, according to Vihiga Woman Representative Beatrice Adagala. Adagala said Mudavadi has a vast experience in public leadership – he has been a vice-president, a deputy prime minister and a minister in several dockets. The legislator said the ANC leader is the better person to secure Kenyans’ economy compared to other potential presidential contestants. Adagala spoke at Shaviringa centre in Hamisi where she donated sewing machines and charcoal making machines to various groups. “The economic matters of this country at this time need someone who understands and is capable of reviving our economy. People should vote not blindly in 2022 to ensure we elect people who will rescue our ailing economy,” she said. But the Luhya community should first rally behind Mudavadi for him to ascent to power in the coming general elections, she said. Adagala was concerned by abuses hurled at her on social media over development in Vihiga. "I have no kitty for developing this county, so fraudsters who developed platforms to accuse me over such matters are misinformed." She urged social media users to learn the proper way of addressing issues, noting that the role of Woman reps is to ensure women and young girls are protected and heard in the National Assembly. “We are only entitled to empower a woman. That’s all. So when you take it to social media saying 'Adagala roads are in poor state', 'Adagala there is no development', where do I get that money?” she asked. She stated that matters to do with county development should be directed at the governor and elected MPs. “Governors have their role to play, MPs have their role to play and MCAs as well. Make sure you read that 2010 Constitution well and know the roles of every officeholder,” Adagala said. Last month Governor Wilbur Ottichillo and his deputy Patrick Saisi similarly complained of attacks on social media by "fraudsters". The county chief said on Jamhuri Day that they had reported the attacks to the police and investigations had started.  