President Uhuru Kenyatta and his handshake partner Raila Odinga are facing a massive headache in addressing sticking reform issues to build consensus on the BBI. The two have made a passionate appeal to Kenyans to support the Building Bridges Initiative report in a non-contested referendum. Key leaders on Monday set the stage for an all-out battle to fight off-key recommendations in the report. Deputy President William Ruto; Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi; Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu are among leaders seeking further review of the proposals. Some of the recommendations the leaders want to be tinkered are at the centre of President Kenyatta's reform agenda. Ruto led the call when he tore into the report by questioning its place in solving the country’s inclusivity problem, and youth empowerment. Deputy President William Ruto on Tuesday met the leadership of the National Council of Elders headed by its patron Captain Kung’u Muigai, who is also President Uhuru Kenyatta’s cousin. Ruto said that they discussed the elders’ role in ensuring that the country remains united. The elders are said to be on a mission to reconcile all political leaders and urge them to tone down on political rhetoric that may divide Kenyans. The visit by Kung’u is however likely to raise political antennas as he has been at the forefront of dismissing another set of elders from the Kikuyu community that was hosted by ODM leader Raila Odinga in Bondo on October 10. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has unveiled its own reform agenda days after the Building Bridges Initiative recommended its officials exit before 2022. Chairman Wafula Chebukati recently said the commission was unfairly targeted in the bid to replace the current team 60 days of implementing the BBI report. And in the wake of the lamentations, the IEBC has submitted a report to Parliament on its preferred legal reforms. In the report, the commission proposes radical changes that if adopted would change the times for politicians eying posts in the 2022 poll. IEBC wants the number of commissioners reduced to five – inclusive of the chairperson, unlike the BBI, which roots for seven. The DPP says the life of the accused persons in the Willie Kimani murder case will be at risk if they are released on bail. The four AP officers and a police informer have made a fresh bail application before the court in a bid to get freedom. This is their third attempt at applying for bail as the case comes to a close with only two witnesses remaining for the prosecution to finish their case. However, the prosecution has asked the court not to grant them bail because of their own safety due to the seriousness of the offence. Assistant DPP Nicholas Mutuku told Justice Jessie Lessit that the life of the accused persons will be at risk if they are released. Mutuku said when the murder occurred in 2016, there were protests and a police facility was burnt down by an angry mob. Commuters in Nairobi will soon be spared anger and frustration associated with matatus after the much-anticipated Nairobi Commuter Rail Service is launched. The Commuter Rail Project will be a game-changer in the reduction of both vehicular and human traffic jams in the city. Passengers will save both time and money and at the same time enjoy much-needed comfort on their way to and from the city centre. Commuters tell sad stories of their experiences in the use of public service vehicles. They are verbally and physically abused, robbed of money and personal items and even hijacked. Violence is meted on women, with some sexually harassed and raped.