Sheffield United and Fulham picked up their first point each of the Premier League campaign after a cagey 1-1 draw at Bramall Lane on Sunday. Ademola Lookman scored the opening goal in the 77th minute, but constant pressure from United enabled them to level the game in the 85th from the penalty spot through Billy Sharp. After being dominated in the first half, Fulham had a golden opportunity to take the lead in the second from the penalty spot when Jack Robinson was found to have handled the ball in the area. But Aleksandar Mitrovic thumped the ball onto the crossbar and over. The visitors went ahead when Lookman dribbled past two defenders before smashing the ball past goalkeeper Aaron Ramsdale for his first Premier League goal. However, the Blades won a penalty following a VAR review after Mitrovic kicked Robinson while competing for a high ball, and substitute Sharp made no mistake to beat Alphonse Areola in the Fulham goal. Mitrovic nearly settled the contest in stoppage time when he rose above the United defence to connect with Lookman’s cross, but his header sailed inches wide of the near post. Elsewhere, Irrepressible Sassuolo scored three goals in 13 minutes as they charged back from 3-1 down to win 4-3 at Bologna in their Serie A derby on Sunday, moving up to second place in the league and remaining unbeaten so far.] An own goal by Takehiro Tomiyasu settled a see-saw match as Sassuolo scored four for the third game in a row. The Serie A dark horses now have 10 points from four games and sit proudly above teams such as Napoli, Juventus and Inter Milan. AC Milan lead the table with a maximum 12 points. Roberto Soriano gave Bologna a ninth minute lead when he finished off a flowing passing move, but Domenico Berardi curled in an equaliser nine minutes later after being allowed too much space on the edge of the area. Mattias Svanberg put Bologna back in front six minutes before the break from Rodrigo Palacio’s through ball, and Riccardo Orsolini dispossessed Manuel Locatelli to score their third on the hour. Filip Djuricic began the fight back four minutes later, exchanging passes with Francesco Caputo before scoring from a narrow angle.= Then Caputo, who scored on his Italy debut at the age of 33 earlier this month, headed Sassuolo level in the 70th minute after Palacio miskicked an attempted clearance from a corner. The momentum was now with Sassuolo and they won the match seven minutes later when the hapless Tomiyasu attempted to intercept a cross and turned the ball into his own goal from six metres. Bologna are 16th in the table on three points.