Today’s Mashujaa Day celebrations are to be held in strict compliance with Health ministry’s Covic-19 containment protocols, Nyanza regional coordinator Magu Mutindika said yesterday. He said about 4,000 people will be allowed into Gusii Stadium. It’s an invite-only event. Anyone entering the facility must wear a mask and wash hands or sanitise. It will be the first national holiday to be marked publicly since the disease broke out in the country early in the year. “Entry is restricted to invited people only and all the gates will be opened early enough. Those who have not been invited can go to the Kisii Sports Club where we have a big screen while others will be mounted in Kisii town,” Mutindika said. He spoke at Mocha Hotel during a media briefing. He was accompanied by Government Spokesman Cyrus Oguna. “This year’s Mashujaa Day celebration arrangements are complete and we are ready to host visitors with hotel accommodation and security guaranteed. "Traffic control measures have been put in place to ensure order and smooth flow of vehicles,” Mutindika said. He added that public and private vehicles will not be allowed into Kisii town centre. People travelling from Kisumu to Kisii through Oyugis will be dropped at Nyambera and Daraja Mbili primary schools, while those travelling from Nairobi through Keroka will park at Kereri Girls. Vehicles from Migori will be parked at Nyanchwa Primary School and Nyanchwa Adventist College, while Kisii University will be the parking area for vehicles from Kilgoris. Those from Kisii-Nyamira road will be parked at Jogoo Primary School. Mutindika said the region faces myriad challenges that go against the aspirations of heroes and heroines from the area. “It is important to take into account this year's theme that puts emphasis on the obligation to secure the nation's present-day heroes,” he said. "Currently, political temperatures continue to rise as we approach the 2022 election. Let me assure you that the Government shall do everything possible to prevent any form of violence as we approach the election year," he said.