The rising water level in Lake Turkana has displaced hundreds of people living along its shores and destroyed property. The water level in the lake has surged to unprecedented levels from 500 metres to 800 metres, submerging beaches, hotels, homes and government offices. Residents, including fishermen and traders, have lamented the devastating effects of the surging lake. Their livelihoods have been ruined. The situation has also exposed people to crocodiles and hippos, leading to human-wildlife conflict. There are also fears of waterborne disease outbreaks. County Disaster Management executive Benson Lokwang said an assessment of the situation was underway to establish the magnitude of the destruction. It is carried out by a multisectoral team comprising officers from the departments of Trade, Tourism, Water and Environment, Health, and Fisheries as well as development partners. Fisherman Simon Lokai of Kalokol said raging waters have destroyed their fishing gear. “Water levels of the lake are still increasing and causing a lot of damage to fisher folks. All my fishing gear such as canoes and nets and my grass-thatched house were submerged,” he said. James Etabo, also a fisherman, said the swelling of the lake has halted fishing activities that support their livelihoods and now they depend on handouts for survival. He said thousands of people have been marooned and are unable to access clean water for drinking or medical care. “We normally experience cases of waterborne diseases along the shores of Turkana. Cholera has been on the rise for many years claiming lives of fishermen due to poor hygiene and lack of clean water,” Etabo said. He said typhoid and cholera outbreaks might ravage the region if the Ministry of Health does not intervene swiftly. Ann Lochodo, a mother of six, said her homestead was turned into an island and she now spends the night in the cold with her children. “For many years, we have been living well along the shores of the lake, but since March, water levels have been increasing and my homestead has already been destroyed,” she said. She has appealed to the county and national governments and humanitarian agencies for aid. They need food, tents for shelter, mosquito nets, fishing nets, canoes, clothes, clean water and other necessities. The surge is a threat to key livelihoods, including businesses, tourism and fishing. Hotels have been submerged and many businesses have had to shut down. Area chiefs say 9,428 people have been displaced — 4,000 in Kalokol, 2,500 in Kangatotha ward and 2,928 in Kerio ward. In Turkana North, landing beaches have been submerged. They include Kaito, Kalokol, Todonyang, Kariekuk, Naiyani and Esanyait. Administrative offices have also been left in ruins. The worst-hit villages in Kalokol are Ekoyo, Naremiat, Imprezer, Loroo, Natiira, Natelewa and Tarach. The downpours pummelling parts of Ethiopia has been blamed for the rise in water levels. Turkwel dam could also spill over. It has an outlet that drains excess water into the lake. On Thursday, Turkwel water level had reached 1,147 metres, only three metres remaining to reach the 1,150-metre full capacity. Other lakes in Rift Valley that are experiencing high water levels include Baringo, Bogoria and Nakuru.