Deputy President William Ruto does not deserve Mt Kenya support in 2022, according to the Kikuyu Council of Elders. The elders say he is disloyal to President Uhuru Kenyatta and fear he will not protect the interests of Mt Kenya region. “We don’t believe that the DP will protect our interests. We might be forced to field another Kikuyu with Uhuru remaining as the region's kingpin," the elders' chairman Wachira Kiago told the Star by phone. The council cited Ruto's holding of parallel meetings in his Karen home as the President discussed Covid-19 issues with national leaders at KICC as a dereliction of duty and disrespect of the head of state. Last week, the DP dismissed as busybodies those claiming he has absconded duty. Ruto said at no point had he failed to serve the country as the principal assistant to the President. “No work has been given to me and I failed to execute,” he said at his Karen and told those he accused of purporting to supervise him to focus on their work. “Who are they to complain about my work? Who made them my supervisors?” The DP said he knows his work “and my boss has not complained about my performance”. On Saturday, Wachira said it was clear the DP was not helping the President deliver his agenda to Kenyans. That alone was reason enough for Mt Kenya region not support him, he said. He disclosed that the council had opened a platform for those intending to succeed Uhuru from the region to meet them. Wachira said Uhuru will endorse and campaign for whoever fits to be his successor. “Our President has immense experience and his successor will have to prove it too. We shall listen to everyone ahead of the nominations of the party,” he stated. Uhuru's likely regional successors include former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe, former Devolution CS Mwangi Kiunjuri and governors Mwangi wa Iria (Murang’a) and Anne Waiguru (Kirinyaga). While the President had in 2017 campaigns said he would support his deputy in 2022, that is no longer the case going by the infighting in Jubilee. The DP continues to focus on campaigns despite calls by the President to concentrate on development. University don and political analyst Macharia Munene said the meetings being held by the DP across Mount Kenya region are well-planned in spite of Uhuru's appeal against early campaigns. “The DP is just intensifying what he started. He is putting more effort into being seen everywhere across the country," he said. Former Maragua MP Peter Kamande has said Mount Kenya region will not be blackmailed into supporting the Deputy President. “Ruto has on several occasions disobeyed Uhuru’s order and it will be very hard for him to woo the people of Mount Kenya region,” he said. Edited by A.N    