Parents of pupils at Karapul Primary School in Alego Usonga have expressed concern after the construction of a two-story building to house 16 classrooms stalled. Four classrooms were demolished to create space for the Sh42 million project, which is meant to accommodate more learners. But four months down the line, there is nothing to bring hope to the souls of parents who are worried that learning will be disrupted after full reopening for lack of enough classes. The project is still at the foundation. Parents who spoke to the Star said the contractor should have been working on the second floor if he was serious. They requested not to be named for fear of reprisal. Headteacher Stephen Otieno said the delay has prompted them to construct makeshift classrooms to accommodate pupils. He said they had a meeting with all stakeholders and agreed the construction continues and at least be on the first floor by the end of this month. Area MP Samuel Atandi had said the works were to continue immediately after the launch on July 3 so children have a place to learn once they reopen. But Siaya youth leader Austine Ogolla condemned the slow pace, accusing the MP of lying to his constituents. Ogolla said the MP has never had the interest of Alego at heart, hence "always slowing on matters of development, even those that require emergency like school projects". MP Atandi’s personal assistant George Adeya downplayed the outcries, saying residents should not worry and assured there will be no delay. Adeya said the complex will be completed within the timeline set in the bill of quantities, insisting that everything is in order. Despite his assertions, however, nothing was going on on-site. Contractor Ben Otieno said he could not comment on the issue. He hanged a call by the Star. Ogolla said Karapul, being a centre of academic excellence known for good performers, should be given a good contractor and not briefcase ones. He cautioned against empty political rhetoric. “It’s disheartening that the contractor demolished four classrooms in July to build a storied building, but, sadly, four months down the line, storied classes have turned into stories, with nothing being done even after the President announced the reopening of schools for Grade 4 and Standard 8 learners,” Ogolla said. He said that if nothing is done by the contractor in the next week, he will lead the mother of all demonstrations to fast-track the construction. The complex will help in modelling the leaders of tomorrow, he said. However, there have been claims that the works officer stopped the construction after realising the foundation was substandard. It’s said the contractor had started using low-quality metals in disregard for the specifications in the bill of quantities.