United States-based forward Robert Nyakundi has pulled out of next month’s FIBA Afro-Basket qualifiers in Kigali, Rwanda. Head coach Cliff Owuor confirmed on Tuesday that Nyakundi will not be available for the tournament due to personal commitment. The tactician said Nyakundi absence will be a huge blow and they will now be forced to go back to the drawing board as he looks for a replacement. “His absence in the championship will be a huge blow for us,” Owuor pointed out. “He is an intelligent player and I had planned to use him a lot this time round. Now I will have to groom some one else for his position.” Nyakundi emerged as a key component for Morans during the January qualifiers in Nairobi. He was huge difference in a close 74-68 triumph over South Sudan. Owuor, however, revealed that Algeria-based Ariel Okal and Valentine Nyakinda, who is in Tanzania, were expected in the country yesterday. “Okal and Nyakinda should join the training by weekend after completing their 24-hour quarantine period upon arrival,” said Owuor. He said diaspora players Tyler Ongwae (Denmark), Desmond Owili (Australia), Tom Wamukota (Rwanda) and Ronny Gundo (USA) have confirmed availability. “Good progress is being made for the diaspora players as far as securing their travel tickets are concerned. It is just a matter of knowing the dates,” Owuor said. He expressed delight that some of his players are back in action ahead of the tournament that is slated for Kigali on November 25-29. Centre Tom Wamukota was in a class of his own over the weekend, guiding Patriots to the Rwandese national league title after beating rivals REG 75-61. “It is important to have the players return to action before coming home to join the rest for training. Bush played really well in that game,” said Owuor. Besides Wamukota, Owuor also revealed that assistant captain Ongwae is also back in action in Denmark and was doing well. Kenya will play Angola, Senegal and Mozambique in the qualifier in Kigali from November 25-29. The second window is slated for February. He plans to have all diaspora players home early so that they can train together with the local based ones whom he observed were progressing well. Owuor expects next week’s training to be full house.