At least 2054 residents in Nairobi were tested for Covid-19 on Saturday across all 17 sub-counties. This was part of Phase two mass testing that was launched by the Nairobi Metropolitan Service. Statistics from the NMS office reveals that Makadara Sub-county recorded the highest turn up of 247 people who tested for the virus. Kibra had 214, Langata 100, Dagoretti North  168, Dagoretti South 193, Starehe 81, Mathare  80, Ruaraka 82, Roysambu  72, Kasarani  125, Embakasi North  135, Embakasi East  95 , Embakasi South  120, Embakasi West 106, Embakasi Central 96 and Kamkunji  140. Today will be the last day of the free Covid-19 mass testing. NMS Health director Josephine Kibaru had earlier noted that they will test as many people as possible after a sustained community mobilisation by health workers and community health volunteers. “The community health volunteers will give health messages and encourage community members to present themselves voluntarily for testing,” she said. In Kasarani sub-county, the testing will be at Kasarani health centre. In Embakasi, the tests will be conducted at Dandora One health centre in Embakasi North, Umoja One health centre in Embakasi West, Nairobi Pentecostal Glory Church in Embakasi East, Mukuru health centre in Embakasi South and Kayole 2 health centre in Embakasi central. Testing in Dagoretti North will be at the Muslim chief’s office and Kilimani Primary School. In Starehe, the public will be tested at Nairobi South health centre, Mathare North health centre and Huruma Lions health centre. In Makadara sub-county, Nairobians will be tested at the Star HopePrimary School and Rabai Road Primary School. The testing venues in Lang'ata sub-county will be Ngei Primary School and Kibra DO's office. Testing in Kamukunji will be at Zawadi Primary School and Eastleigh health centre. Other venues will be in Ruaraka and Westlands at High Ridge Primary School and Kihumbuini grounds, and Mutuini Hospital in Dagoretti South sub county.In Roysambu, the tests will be at Githurai Primary School. All the samples will be processed at the Mama Lucy Kibaki Hospital laboratory. 