A section of MPs have termed Deputy President William Ruto the most dangerous person and should be stopped before 2022 elections. The leaders spoke a day after two people died during the chaos that erupted during the DP's visit to Kenol, Murang'a. Led by National Assembly Minority Leader John Mbadi and Minority Whip Junet Mohammed, the leaders said the DP has started mobilising the country to war should things fail to go his way in 2022. Junet said they will not allow the DP to oversee another wave of bloodshed in the country adding that has been his type of politics. "He knows that the only option to ascend to power now that the Jubilee window is closing is through violence," Junet said. Mbadi said Ruto has been the constant name in the 1992 and 2007 election chaos that has led to death and eviction of people in the Rift Valley. He said they will now allow him to take the country in 2022. "In 2007, as ODM we were busy looking for votes but Ruto was busy mobilising youths to evict people from Rift Valley and when elections results were out he went into action," Mbadi said. "He has started again going into 2022." MPs Jared Okelo (Nyando), Gladys Wanga (Homabay MP), Antony Oluoch (Mathare), Paul Abuor (Rongo) and nominated Senator Gertrude Mashruve accompanied the leaders during the briefing at Parliament buildings. The leaders' sentiments came on the same day ODM party leader Raila Odinga urged political leaders to stop early campaigns as he condemned the chaos that was witnessed in Muranga county on Sunday. Raila appealed to leaders to acknowledge that systemic violence has plagued Kenya for far too long and all Kenyans need to commit to working together to confront and end it. "Let’s renounce the politics of violence and militarization of our youth as a mean of achieving power," he said. "We must regard such politics as outdated and out of tune with our current aspirations to move past our divided and bitter past as a nation in favour of politics of engagement rather than confrontation." Through a statement on Monday, the ODM leader said the spectre of violence and vandalism in the name of a presidential election that is over two years away, should be a serious cause for concern to all peace-loving Kenyans.