This is not the time to get pregnant. It is the time to reflect on yourself and your future, Mama Ida Odinga has cautioned young girls. In a statement on the closure of schools due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Mama Ida said it is already alarming that the numbers of reported pregnancies have skyrocketed during the initial phase of the lockdown, adding that it may get worse if nothing is done to salvage the situation. “I am deeply concerned with the possible and projected sexual health risks and challenges posed by the closure of schools for the academic year 2020 while at the same time recognizing its intention,” she said. “Data in my possession states that yearly, about 300,000 school-going age girls get impregnated and two per cent of the same never gets back to school. An extrapolation of this with the dynamic situation we are in may spell something scarier than before.” Ida said that even before the crisis, girls and young women in Kenya faced significant challenges in accessing basic health information and services. She noted that there is a real risk that sexual and reproductive health and rights will be deprioritized, with devastating consequences for girls and women at large due to the pandemic. She noted that according to the WHO, complications relating to pregnancy and childbirth are already the leading cause of death for girls aged 15-19 globally. “Pregnant girls and young mothers face even greater risks in crises such as the ongoing pandemic.” According to Mama Ida, evidence from past epidemics indicates that resources are often diverted from routine health services, which further reduces access to sexual and reproductive health services, as well as maternal, new-born and child health services. “With this in mind, I call upon parents, guardians, the national and county governments to devise means of mitigating this lifelong risk,” she emphasised. She further called on women leaders to step up their resolve and mandate to protect women interests in their representative roles, but urged students to be extremely careful with their future and know that there is time for everything. She advised students to instead take their time and engage in meaningful activities that will aid in their development rather than passive and wasteful leisure endeavours that end up threatening their lives.