DID AN ACCOMPLISHED lawyer-cum politician throw her credentials through the window on Monday? The rights activist shocked all and sundry when she joined the heckling and jeering party targeting Deputy President William Ruto at the Bomas of Kenya. With her rich legal history, many hoped she would be at the forefront of championing democratic space in the push for the BBI. Unlike her political colleagues, hers was an anti-climax of sorts. Many Kenyans lit up social media platforms, taunting her for lowering the bar in a serious national platform. Her enthusiastic followers, who see her as a trailblazer in the fight for women rights, felt let down. STILL ON THE happenings at Bomas, some Kieleweke enthusiasts were heard asking why the Deputy President is concerned about IEBC reforms and who will be the next referee. They recalled that just weeks ago, Ruto said he was not concerned about who will steer the next elections as the poll's results would be determined by the people. Ruto even suggested that opposition chief Raila Odinga could push his own brother Oburu Oginga to be the next commission chairman. The MPs, who were sipping tea at a city hotel, claimed the DP's tongue will return to haunt him. A BISHOP FROM Western Kenya has baffled his followers. The man of the cloth transferred his personal secretary to a rural facility for allegedly practising witchcraft. Many of his followers are convinced there is more to it and they wonder why he did not lead her to the Lord instead of sending her to the far flanks of his diocese. The Bible teaches Christians how to deal with uncomfortable situations but this bishop seems to have a different way altogether - transfer the problem to another station. That is if indeed the accusations levelled against the secretary can stand the test of time. SOME ODM ENTHUSIASTS are not happy with an individual nominated to the Building Bridges Initiative team by party leader Raila Odinga. Why? They claim the man has been compromised and has become more Jubilee than ODM. It's whispered the man has even changed his drinking buddies and is no longer "available" to the people he had toiled with. The entire team is said to have been remunerated well for the duration of their tenure, but some say they must now exit and create space for others. - mwaniki fm