The Kisumu government has partnered with Living Water International to build a Sh64 million water project in Nyakach subcounty. Deputy Governor Mathews Owili said the project will be completed next year. He said the county and the partner have each contributed Sh32 million towards the project. Upon completion, more than 20,000 residents in Central Nyakach will receive clean, safe and affordable drinking water. Owili  spoke during an event by Kenya Breweries Limited in partnership with Reckitt Benckiser to promote hygiene at Olembo Primary School, Nyakach, on Wednesday. “We expect to complete the project in the first quarter of 2021. This is in line with our agenda to increase water coverage, which currently stands at 57 percent,” he said. Owili said residents have grappled with acute water shortage for years. “We are going to tap the water from Nyabondo Plateau before distributing it to the population downstream,” he said. Owili said they are committed to realising 90 percent water coverage in 10 years. He commended KBL and the Lake Basin Development Authority  for building the Olembo community water project in Central Nyakach. KBL and RB have installed handwashing stations, donated soaps/hand wash, and carried out habit education for communities living around KBL water projects in Kisumu and Homa Bay counties as well as sorghum and barley farmers in Narok and Tharaka Nithi counties. A typical handwashing unit has a capacity of 100 litres of water and will be stocked with Dettol soap. The units have a foot pump, drainage bucket and piping. The companies have donated 10 units across the four counties as well as 20 cartons of Dettol bar soaps. KBL Head of Sustainability and Engagement Arnolda Shiundu said they are committed to improving the livelihoods of communities in which they source, operate, and sell as part of their mission to build thriving communities across the value chain. "This initiative is also in line with our commitment to improving access to clean water, hygiene and sanitation in the communities we operate in,” Shiundu said. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya