ODM Party has summoned Migori ward reps to Nairobi for a meeting to review progress on its plans to impeach Governor Okoth Obado. The 40 MCAs will meet ODM leadership in Nairobi at Chungwa House. Party officials will first meet with Governor Obado who has appealed to ODM to give him a chance to explain why his removal bid should be shelved. The governor was initially scheduled to meet the party leadership on Friday but he requested time to attend to pressing official duties. ODM secretary-general Edwin Sifuna told the Star that the county boss had approached the party to be given a chance to explain his case. “The governor himself is the one who requested for this meeting at the funeral of the Awendo MP’s [Walter Owino] father. He was the one who reached out and said that he wanted to convince the party [against the impeachment], so we want to listen to him,” Sifuna said on phone. He added, “The governor was unable to travel so he has requested us to give him another date so we will give him another and have a conversation.” During the funeral for Owino's father Peter Sirawa in Ombasa village, ODM leader Raila Odinga talked about calling a truce in the county. “We don’t need to go like this towards 2022.  I will unite leaders in Migori soon,” he said. But Obado said some individuals were feeding Raila rumours to create a wedge between him and the party leader. ODM was concerned about the governor’s ability to carry out his mandate in light of the court ruling which banned him from setting foot at Migori county offices. Sifuna said the outcome of the meeting with Obado will set the tone for the forum with the MCAs. “Our greatest concern as a party is how service provision will continue to the people of Migori when the guy is out of office. He said he has some proposals. We want to listen to those proposals and table the same before the MCAs on Thursday,” he said. “If the assembly is convinced that it will work then they will make a decision. That is not the decision of the party to make.”  