The decision by the government to ease travel restrictions has seen the number of local tourists to Hells Gate National Park in Naivasha double in the last one month. The Covid-19 pandemic had adversely affected the tourism sector, with the number of visitors to the world renowned park dropping by 99 per cent. At the height of the pandemic, parks across the country were closed leading to a major decline in revenue. At Hells Gate, the management has embarked on a major customer care week targeting local tourists whose number has been swelling in recent weeks. According to the warden in charge of the park Lillian Ojuoga, the pandemic had adversely affected the tourism sector due to stringent measures introduced by the Ministry of Health. The senior warden was, however, confident that with the easing of the rules the park that is home to hundreds of animals and tourist sites could regain its glory. “After the lockdown business went down but we have seen the number of visitors rise sharply mainly during weekends, which is encouraging,” she said. On the customer service week, Ajuoga said they were targeting local tourists though international visitors were also trooping in. She identified some of the main features in the park as the Fischers Towers, camping and bike riding. She said it is the only park where visitors are allowed to walk in. “The park is also home to various endangered species of vultures and we are working with stakeholders to save them,” she said. The officer in charge of customer care Peter Gatei said they were keen to address their customers’ needs. He noted that apart from the visit to the park, they were targeting the nearby geothermal spa which is the only one of its kind in East and Central Africa. Gatei admitted that the pandemic had adversely affected their revenue and services but was optimistic that things would improve in the coming days. “Already the number of visitors during the weekend has risen sharply and we plan to open the Olkaria Hill trek as part of scenes to visit,” he said. A trader, Lydia Salinta, said they had resumed the sale of Maasai wares after the increase in the number of visitors. “We had been forced to close down due to the pandemic that rendered us jobless but we are now back in operation as the number of visitors increases,” she said. Edited by Henry Makori