Sirisia MP John Waluke on Thursday brought Parliament to a standstill when he reported back days after a court released him from jail on bail. The MP who was in prison for almost four months was last week released on a bail of Sh10 million pending appeal of his jail sentence in a multi-million shilling corruption case. The entry of the lawmaker interrupted the business of the House as colleagues jubilantly welcomed him. Nominated MP David Sankok was forced to apologise for clapping his hands loudly as he welcomed the lawmaker who appeared in public for the first time since he was released from incarceration “We don’t clap our hands. You know how we do it. Let us have decorum in the House,” said Jessica Mbalu who was chairing the session. “We are colleagues, Speaker, you know I don’t have legs so I must use the hands and mouth,” Sankok said. Waluke thanked Kenyans who stood by him during his lowest moment. “I have been away for months and I want to take this opportunity to thank those who stood by me. I want the nation to know that I did not steal anything,” Waluke said. Granting the bail, Justice John Onyiego said he was persuaded that the MP has an arguable appeal. Onyiego, however, dismissed claims by Waluke that he was likely to lose his parliamentary seat. He said there is no law providing for special treatment of certain categories of people and what mattered was equal treatment regardless of social status. As a director of Erad Supplies and General Contractors, Waluke allegedly made a false invoice worth Sh114,600,000 as evidence to support a maize storage claim by Chelsea Freights. He was also charged with fraudulently acquiring Sh297 million from the public as the cost of storing the maize, which was to be supplied to NCPB. Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji on Thursday challenged the High Court’s decision to release Walukhe and his business associate Grace Wakhungu. “Take notice that the DPP, being dissatisfied with the decision of the High Court, intends to appeal to the Court of Appeal against the decision in which the court released each of the appellants on bail pending their appeal,” the notice reads. Edited by Henry Makori