Wajir Deputy Governor Ahmed Mukhtar on Thursday called for joint efforts between the county and partners to improve food and nutritional security. Mukhtar said that Wajir has a huge potential to support livelihoods through agriculture and trade in fresh produce. However, he said, disasters such as drought, bushfires, floods, locust invasion, human, livestock and crop diseases hamper efforts to stop hunger. The deputy county chief spoke at the county headquarters when he met a World Food Programme delegation led by country deputy director Emmanuel Bigenimania. Mukhtar said the Sustainable Food System programme, which includes extension support, has transformed lives in the county. “We are pleased and thankful for your visit as a longtime partner in food security and safety. We congratulate you as the latest winner of the prestigious Nobel Peace Prize 2020 and note that the award is long overdue given the leading role you play in the global fight against hunger,” he said. Bigenimania noted that the WFP and Wajir signed a memorandum of understanding in March last year to work towards improving food and nutrition security for the community. “The MoU was a result of a comprehensive capacity needs mapping, which ensured that the activities are aligned to county priorities and that we contribute in equal measure to achieving the shared objectives,” Bigenimania said. Some 28,002 beneficiaries drawn from 4,667 households have been reached through the Sustainable Food System programme. Farmers received jembes, spades, wheelbarrows, fork-jembes, sickles, water pumps and inputs, such as seeds and fertiliser under the initiative. The programme has also led the design and construction of rainwater harvesting structures. To improve crop production, the WFP has supported the Agricultural Mechanical Service through repairing of tractors used to plough and open up more land for planting. Other key achievements under this partnership include drafting of the Disability Bill for Wajir County. Mukhtar said that the draft bill is ready and planning for public participation forums is ongoing to get views and input from the public and the stakeholders. The WFP has also supported the formation and training of the subcounty disaster risk management committees to strengthen coordination. The county has launched a five-year County Nutrition Action Plan to bolster its food security efforts. The WFP in collaboration with the Department of Health and Nutrition is also training health workers and community health volunteers to monitor and detect malnutrition in the community.