Most older people in Nairobi have been depending on remittances from relatives as their main source of income during the Covid-19 crisis. This is according to the Covid-19 rapid needs assessment report for older people by HelpAge that reveals six in 10 people aged above 60 depend on relatives. However, for those above 70 years, half rely on pensions and cash transfers like Inua Jamii as their main source of income. Overall, 23 per cent of those interviewed reported business as their main source of income although the numbers were higher for those in their 60s. About 16 per cent also reported income from Covid-19-related responses. "This can be attributed to the government Covid-19 emergency fund initiative, which provided cash transfers for households in informal settlements," the report says. Following reduced income, 76 per cent of older persons in the city reported reducing the quantity of food eaten since the outbreak, while 52 per cent reported reduced quality of their food. The percentage is, however, higher for those living with disability who are four in every five older people. For this group, 80 per cent reported a reduction in the quantity of food, with 55 per cent indicating a dip in quality. In the survey of 170 persons aged 60 and above conducted by phone on July 7-10, those interviewed indicated said they had major challenges in accessing facilities such as water points, toilets and bathing facilities. For 38 per cent of older persons, there was a lack of such facilities, while 30 per cent indicated the available facilities were hard to access and use. Furthermore, 19 per cent indicated that the available facilities were not clean. For those that indicated that the facilities were too far away, 14 per cent reported that they were so scared of contracting the virus that they could not leave home to access the facilities. The survey was conducted in 17 subcounties in Nairobi. According to the 2019 census, the population of older persons (60 years and above) in Kenya is 2.7 million against a total population of 48 million Kenyans. They elderly constitute about six per cent of the citizenry.