African Games javelin silver medalist Alexander Kiprotich expects a tough competition at Saturday's Kip Keino Classic World Athletics Continental Tour at Nyayo Stadium despite the absence of former world champion Julius Yego. "Because of Covid-19, it is difficult to say that am the standout favourite. Timothy Herman from Belgium, for example, is one athlete I would say can cause an upset," Kiprotich said. Kiprotich adds that he has been working hard to regain his fitness after an extended period of inactivity following the suspension of sporting activities to curb the spread of Covid-19. "Corona has undoubtedly affected my training schedule. The stadiums were only reopened less than a month ago but I have worked hard to improve my fitness for this event," Kiprotich said. Kiprotich, a soldier by profession, said the 2020 Olympic Games set for next year in Tokyo, Japan, as well as the African Games will be next on his to-do list. "Hopefully, after Saturday I will start training for the African Games. I am also focused on the Tokyo Olympics and want to give my best at the event," he he observed. A win on Saturday, Kiprotich said, will certainly represent a step in the right direction as he hopes to emulate the exploits of his mentor and training partner, Yego. Kiprotich finished second to the Olympian at the 2019 African Games in Rabat, Morocco with a throw of 77.50m, behind Yego's throw of  87.73m. At Nyayo, Kiprotich will be leading the Kenyan team of Duncan Kinyanjui and Methusellah Kiprop. Belgian Timothy Herman, Hungarian Dominik Sokola, Frenchman Lukas Moutarde, Pole Hubert Chmielak and South Africa's Johann Grobler are expected to grace the competition. Kiprotich's coach, Joseph Mosonik also expects tough competition. "Johann Grobler from South Africa might give us a lot of problems. We have been working hard with Kiprotich to get him into shape and at present, his performance level is at 75 per cent," Mosonik said. Mosonik, who also handles Yego, believes that the Olympic silver medallist will still influence his compatriot's performance despite his absence from the track. "He will be watching from the terraces and cheering him to victory. I urge all Kenyans likewise to cheer us on from wherever they will be and we will give our best performance," he said. Mosonik added that Yego's focus is on next year — including the World Championships in Oregon, USA.