Premier League summer spending was only slightly down from recent years but it was much higher than Europe’s other top leagues, as the transfer window closed. Clubs spent £1.218bn, £158m down on last year’s £1.376bn, says investment company Carteret Analytics. There were 12 deadline-day Premier League signings on Monday — the fewest total in recent years. Arsenal signed Atletico Madrid midfielder Thomas Partey for £45.3m in the biggest deal of the day. The deadline was later than usual as a result of the coronavirus pandemic and the season starting later. The previous two Premier League windows had closed before the more traditional start to the season in August. “Total expenditure on player acquisitions is significantly down across all the top five European leagues against the five year average — ranging from -7% in the Premier League to -46% in La Liga,” said London-based investment company Carteret Analytics. “It is a fair assumption that Covid-19 has caused this significant contraction in the player transfer market in this window.” Everton brought in Norwich defender Ben Godfrey for £25m in the second most lucrative transfer of the day. Manchester United recruited Porto left-back Alex Telles for £13.6m, former Paris St-Germain striker Edinson Cavani on a free transfer and teenage wingers Amad Diallo and Facundo Pellistri for a combined £28m. However they did not sign long-term target Jadon Sancho from Borussia Dortmund. Leeds bought Rennes winger Raphinha for an initial £17m. Everton signed Roma goalkeeper Robin Olsen on loan and loaned winger Theo Walcott to Southampton. Fulham landed Manchester City defender Tosin Adarabioyo on a three-year deal, while Chelsea winger Ruben Loftus-Cheek and Lyon defender Joachim Andersen joined the Cottagers on loan. Arsenal midfielders Lucas Torreira (Atletico Madrid) and Matteo Guendouzi (Hertha Berlin) and Manchester United defender Chris Smalling (Roma) were among the players to leave the Premier League. In Scotland, Celtic signed AC Milan defender Diego Laxalt and Rangers signed Amiens midfielder Bongani Zungu - both on loan deals. Championship club QPR signed former Nottingham Forest winger Albert Adomah and Benfica forward Chris Willock. Premier League spending was more than three times as high as in La Liga, Bundesliga and Ligue 1 and double that in Serie A, said Carteret. The group advises three Premier League clubs, and another 12 leading sides from around Europe and the rest of the world, on potential new signings and transfer finances. Notably Premier League clubs spent £820.2m more on bringing players to the division than they recouped for selling players to other leagues — higher than the five-year average. By contrast La Liga (£58.6m) and Bundesliga (£8.9m) received more transfer fees than they spent this summer. For the past two seasons the Premier League transfer deadline was before the season started but this season clubs voted to revert back to August 31. However, the deadline across Europe was moved again because of the coronavirus pandemic. The transfer deadline passed across Europe on Monday. A domestic-only window in England will continue to run until October 16. Premier League teams can still buy EFL players until then, but cannot sign anyone from another Premier League club. However it will be too late to register any of those players for European competition. EFL clubs can also sign domestic players in that time. Premier League summer transfer deals: ARSENAL Willian - from Chelsea (free) Pablo Mari - from Flamengo (undisclosed) Cedric Soares - from Southampton (undisclosed) Gabriel Magalhaes - from Lille (27 million pounds; $35.04 million) Dani Ceballos - from Real Madrid (loan) Alex Runarsson - from Dijon (1.5 million pounds) Thomas Partey - from Atletico Madrid (50 million euros)  ASTON VILLA Matty Cash - from Nottingham Forest (16 million pounds) Ollie Watkins - from Brentford (28 million pounds) Bertrand Traore - from Olympique Lyonnais (19 million pounds) Emiliano Martinez - from Arsenal (17 million pounds) Ross Barkley - from Chelsea (loan)  BRIGHTON & HOVE ALBION Adam Lallana - from Liverpool (free) Joel Veltman - from Ajax Amsterdam (undisclosed) Lars Dendoncker - from Club Brugge (free)  BURNLEY Will Norris - from Wolverhampton Wanderers (undisclosed)  CHELSEA Timo Werner - from RB Leipzig (50 million euros) Hakim Ziyech - from Ajax (44 million euros) Ben Chilwell - from Leicester City (50 million pounds) Malang Sarr - from Nice (free) Thiago Silva - from Paris St Germain (free) Kai Havertz - from Bayer Leverkusen (71 million pounds) Edouard Mendy - from Stade Rennes (22 million pounds)  CRYSTAL PALACE Nathan Ferguson - from West Brom (free) Eberechi Eze - from Queens Park Rangers (20 million pounds) Michy Batshuayi - from Chelsea (loan)  EVERTON Niels Nkounkou - from Marseille (250,000 pounds) Allan - from Napoli (25 million pounds) James Rodriguez - from Real Madrid (20 million pounds) Abdoulaye Doucoure - from Watford (20 million pounds) Ben Godrey - from Norwich City (25 million pounds) Robin Olsen - from AS Roma (loan)  FULHAM Antonee Robinson - from Wigan (2 million pounds) Mario Lemina - from Southampton (loan) Harrison Reed - from Southampton (6 million pounds) Anthony Knockaert - from Brighton & Hove Albion (undisclosed) Alphonse Areola - from Paris St Germain (loan) Kenny Tete - from Lyon (undisclosed) Ola Aina - from Torino (loan) Ademola Lookman - from RB Leipzig (loan) Joachim Andersen - from Olympique Lyonnais (loan) Ruben Loftus-Cheek - from Chelsea (loan)  LEEDS UNITED Helder Costa - from Wolves (16 million pounds) Rodrigo Moreno - from Valencia (27 million pounds) Robin Koch - from Freiburg (undisclosed) Illan Meslier - from Lorient (undisclosed) Jack Harrison - from Manchester City (loan) Joe Gelhardt - from Wigan (undisclosed) Cody Drameh - from Fulham (undisclosed) Sam Greenwood - from Arsenal (undisclosed) Diego Llorente - from Real Sociedad (20 million pounds) Raphinha - from Stade Rennes (undisclosed)  LEICESTER CITY Timothy Castagna - from Atalanta (21.5 million pounds) Cengiz Under - from AS Roma (loan) Wesley Fofana - from St Etienne (30 million pounds)  LIVERPOOL Konstantinos Tsimikas - from Olympiakos Piraeus (11 million pounds) Thiago Alcantara - from Bayern Munich (20 million pounds) Diogo Jota - from Wolverhampton Wanderers (41 million pounds)  MANCHESTER CITY Pablo Moreno - from Juventus (undisclosed) Ferran Torres - from Valencia (20.9 million pounds) Nathan Ake - from Bournemouth (40 million pounds) Scott Carson - from Derby County (loan) Ruben Dias - from Benfica (68 million euros)  MANCHESTER UNITED Odion Ighalo - from Shanghai Shenhua (loan) Donny van de Beek - from Ajax (35 million pounds) Alex Telles - from Porto (15.4 million pounds) Amad Diallo - from Atalanta (21 million euros) Edinson Cavani - from Paris St Germain (free)  NEWCASTLE UNITED Mark Gillespie - from Motherwell (free) Jeff Hendrick - from Burnley (free) Callum Wilson - from Bournemouth (20 million pounds) Ryan Fraser - from Bournemouth (free) Jamal Lewis - from Norwich City (15 million pounds)  SHEFFIELD UNITED Wes Foderingham - from Rangers (free) Aaron Ramsdale - from Bournemouth (18.5 million pounds) Ethan Ampadu - from Chelsea (loan) Oliver Burke - from West Bromwich Albion (undisclosed) Rhian Brewster - from Liverpool (23.5 million pounds)  SOUTHAMPTON Kyle Walker-Peters - from Tottenham Hotspur (12 million pounds) Mohammed Salisu - from Real Valladolid (10.9 million pounds) Ibrahima Diallo - from Brest (12 million pounds) Theo Walcott - from Everton (loan)  TOTTENHAM HOTSPUR Pierre-Emile Hojbjerg - from Southampton (15 million pounds) Joe Hart - from Burnley (free) Matt Doherty - from Wolves (15 million pounds) Sergio Reguilon - from Real Madrid (27.5 million pounds) Gareth Bale - from Real Madrid (loan) Carlos Vinicius - from Benfica (loan)  WEST BROMWICH ALBION Matheus Pereira - from Sporting Lisbon (undisclosed) Cedric Kipre - from Wigan (1 million pounds) Grady Diangana - from West Ham United (18 million pounds) David Button - from Brighton (undisclosed) Branislav Ivanovic - from Zenit Saint Petersburg (loan) Callum Robinson - from Sheffield United (undisclosed) Filip Krovinovic - from Benfica (loan)  WEST HAM UNITED Tomas Soucek - from Slavia Prague (undisclosed) Ossama Ashley - from Wimbledon (undisclosed) Vladimir Coufal - from Slavia Prague (5 million pounds)  WOLVERHAMPTON WANDERERS Matija Sarkic - from Aston Villa (free) Fabio Silva - from Porto (35 million pounds) Fernando Marcal - from Olympique Lyonnais (two million euros) Vitinha - from Porto (loan) Ki-Jana Hoever - from Liverpool (10 million pounds) Nelson Semedo - from Barcelona (30 million euros) 