 More than 2 million learners in Standard 8 and Grade Four on Wednesday started their exams countrywide as headteachers decried the cost of the test. The national exams are aimed at interrogating learning gaps caused by the seven-month closure of schools due to the coronavirus pandemic. The Kenya National Examination Council said the test should not be mistaken for regular exams and called for flexibility in administration. At Westlands Primary School, Standard 8 learners started with a mathematics test while those in Grade 4 took their English test from 8am. It was the same situation at both Lavington and Nairobi primary schools. Lavington Primary School head teacher Nicholas Gathemia said all learners had reported back to school. “Those who had not shown up to school last week are now back and this is a good sign because we had initially thought they might have dropped out,” Gathemia said. But some school heads who spoke to the Star on condition of anonymity decried the huge cost of printing the assessment exam. The government requires school heads to download the test from the examination council website and print them for learners. Despite the emphasis that those with difficulty should liaise with subcounty directors of education for production of the test material, the school heads argue the cost of production has been left to them. Also slowing down the exercise is the poor internet coverage in some parts of the country. “The assessment papers are in soft copy and it is upon the head teacher to know how they will be printed for each learner. This is expensive given no budget has been set aside for it,” one head teacher said. He said his school had instead pushed the exam to tomorrow (Thursday) for more time to prepare. Standard 8 assessments will be done in three days. All KCPE subjects will be tested. They will begin with mathematics, English language and composition on the first day with science, Kiswahili  and Insha on the second day. Social and religious studies will be tested on day 3. Grade 4 assessment will be conducted for four days with English learning, speaking and reading set for day one. On day two, the learners will be assessed in English reading comprehension, grammar and writing for one hour and 20 minutes, while those with special needs will be tested for one hour and 50 minutes. They will also be assessed on environmental activities, science and technology. On day 3, the pupils will be tested on Kiswahili, listening, speaking and reading aloud, they will also be assessed in Kiswahili grammar and writing on the fourth day. The assessments will act as a blueprint to improve learning outcomes. It will also help identify strengths and weaknesses in learner retention of specific subject content. During the assessment, schools will be required to maintain a high level of discipline in enforcing the coronavirus protocols and safety guidelines. Head teachers, who will be responsible for fetching the documents and printing them, will also be required to ensure the security and safety of the printed papers and store them in a lockable cabinet. As is the case during end-of-term assessments, teachers must ensure there is no cheating. The teachers will be required to confirm the attendance of learners, account for any absentees and brief them on the conduct of the assessment.  Edited by P.O