President Uhuru Kenyatta led the country in marking the beginning of the National Prayer weekend at State House, Nairobi, on Saturday. This will be the second national prayer event in the country since the virus struck the nation on March 13. During the socially distanced event, religious leaders delivered scripture readings, offered sermons and led in thematic intercessory prayers covering thanksgiving, repentance and forgiveness, national healing and restoration, national aspirations, and leadership and family. Citam presiding Bishop David Oginde compared Kenya to the ship Jonah in the Bible had boarded as he tried to avoid his Godsent mission. “Kenya is a ship that is facing huge storms. We are facing a violent storm, the president has called on us to call upon our God, so He may hear us so we do not perish. Every Kenyan should call on his God,” he said. Catholic Diocese Bishop Rev Alfred Rotich asked everyone in their capacity to figure out the role they could be playing in blocking national prayers. “We are fighting corruption and tribalism, and those are blocking our prayers. What is it that you want to do? Who is corrupt, who is tribal? Is it you and I who are coming here to pray?” he posed. Islamic leader Ambassador Mohammed Mahat urged Kenyans to stick together as God had brought them together despite having the differences that appeared irreconcilable in 2018. The meeting was also attended by Deputy President William Ruto, First Lady Margaret Kenyatta, Mama Ngina Kenyatta, ministers, ambassadors, and political leaders. The government on Friday declared Saturday a public holiday to be marked through prayer and community work. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i in a statement announced October 10 as Huduma Day in the exercise of the powers conferred by Cap 110 of the Public Holidays Act. Matiang'i said the day should be observed through national prayers that will highlight service and volunteerism to the community. "Kenyans are encouraged to participate in the prayers and promote national unity, social justice, cohesion and sustainable development in their communities for the benefit of present and future generations," he said. Kenyans are encouraged to pray for the country during the Prayer weekend in their usual places of worship in compliance with Covid-19 containment protocols.