Limited funding, focus on Covid-19 and donor cutbacks have set back the fight against tuberculosis. Without continuous patient identification and treatment, it is feared there will be more infections in communities. Though the Health ministry has increased funding, donors have reduced support due to hard economic times. International help is needed. It's notoriously difficult to get patients to adhere to a treatment regimen. Treatment costs for Multi-Drug-Resistant TB are high, at about Sh1.5 million per patient; treatment takes as long as two years. The bad news emerged at a Komesha TB workshop organised by the Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops in Naivasha. It was attended by officials from the National TB programme and nine counties from Western Kenya. Conference technical adviser Michael Macharia said the negative global economic situation and the Covid-19 pandemic have reduced donor funding. “Funding for TB across the world has been reduced due to harsh economic times though Kenya's Ministry of Health has increased funding — it's still not adequate," he said. By last year, Kenya had 692 cases of Multi-Drug-Resistant TB, which are very costly to treat, Macharia said. “To treat one case of Multi-Drug-Resistant TB requires Sh1.5 million and very few patients can afford this, hence, the need for donor support,” he said. Macharia said cases of TB amongst children five years and below is increasing and many cases are undetected. He said the Catholic bishops were working closely with nine communities in Western Kenya where TB prevalence is very high. “We have seen an upsurge in cases of TB among minors with many being misdiagnosed and getting treatment for the wrong disease,” Macharia said Coordinator of TB and leprosy activities in Siaya county Mary Wambura said many counties have not allocated part of their health budgets for increasing TB cases. “As donor funding drops, counties have not embraced TB support and this has been left to international partners and the national government,” she said. She said MDR-TB in the county was increasing, with 69 new cases reported since 2018. “The biggest challenge facing the fight against TB is the high cost of treatment and the long period one is supposed to take those drugs,” she said. (Edited by V. Graham)