Elderly people from Kibera in Nairobi are pleading with President Uhuru Kenyatta to look into their housing predicaments. The senior citizens gathered on Thursday to celebrate International day of the Elderly where they pleaded their case. They complained of poor living conditions that have worsened following the unprecedented covid-19 pandemic. Speaking to the Star, the elderly said they are yet to receive any aid from the government despite talk of funds disbursement for the vulnerable groups. On April 16, the President announced that needy households will receive a weekly stipend from the government to help deal with the effects of Covdi-19. The Head of State said the national government had released an additional Sh5 billion to the county governments to supplement the savings they have already generated towards the same cause. "These monies will be devoted specifically to cushion the most vulnerable people and also protect health workers," Uhuru said. Patrick Isila Muhindi, a resident of Kibera says he has not received any help from the state even after being put on the list of beneficiaries. "I have so many problems especially during this Covid-19 pandemic. We were promised some monitory support from the government of at least Sh1000 but we have not received a penny," he said. "I cannot pay rent. I can't buy food. " His counterpart, 61-year old Beatrice Osingo, described her ordeal of being locked out of her rented home due to lack of money. "I now stay alone. One of my children died and the other one is married and doesn't help me with anything. I have so many problems," she tearfully narrated. "I just urge the government to help me find decent a place to sleep." Seventy five year-old James Mutahi Festus who is also a resident said his situation has worsened due to the delay in release of the elderly privilege funds. "My child who lives child abroad stopped supporting me since the pandemic started. He no longer picks my call and now I feel helpless since I have no way to finance my treatment Hypertension," he said. Mutahi said he last received his share of older persons grant on the first week of June.