Deputy President William Ruto will this weekend step up his quest to endear himself to the vote-rich Mt Kenya region, largely considered President Uhuru Kenyatta's stronghold. The DP has planned a series of meetings in Murang'a, Kirinyaga, Nyeri, Tharaka Nithi counties from Friday to Sunday. Coming four days after the launch of the Building Bridges Initiative at the Bomas of Kenya, where Uhuru referred to Ruto as an impatient deputy who had abandoned their succession plan, the DP and his troops will try to tone down the President's remarks. During the BBI launch, Uhuru admitted that every politician, himself included, had been part and parcel of bad politics. He also asked Ruto to stop early campaigns. On Tuesday, the National Council of Elders, led by its patron and Kenyatta's cousin Kung’u Muigai held a meeting with Ruto and talked glowingly of the ceasefire between the two Jubilee giants. “We were very happy for the cordial relationship you and the President displayed at Bomas. You laughed and joked. We slept comfortably and peacefully,” Muigai said during the meeting at Ruto’s Karen office. Muigai called on top politicians to conduct a sober BBI debate devoid of name-calling. “We encourage the two leaders to continue working together because our future is dependent on them. In this BBI debate, let each one of you give their proposals but do not call each other names or exchange words. We will also meet Raila to tell him to cool down his reggae. This is not about reggae,” he said. Ruto will on Friday attend a women's fundraiser at Rurii Stadium in Mathioya constituency, Murang’a county. He will be hosted by Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro and Kandara's Alice Wahome. In the afternoon, Ruto will preside over a harambee for a boda boda sacco and a women empowerment function at General Kago Stadium, also in Murang'a. Ruto previous trip to Murang’a county was on October 4, where he attended a church service in Kenol. The event was marred by violence, leading to the death two people. The violence was blamed on both pro-Ruto and pro-Kenyatta politicians. On Saturday, Ruto will pitch camp in Kirinyaga county for a youth and women empowerment programme. Later in the afternoon, he will go to Mathira in Nyeri county, where he will grace a similar event. On Sunday, Ruto will attend a church service and a fundraiser at PCEA John Kimuchia Parish in Tharaka Nithi county. He will then address rallies in Chogoria and Chuka towns. On Wednesday, Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki said, “The region is looking forward to receiving the DP.” Speaking to the Star, the ex-Senate deputy speaker said Ruto “is the only national leader that Mt Kenya region has endorsed to carry their aspirations.” “The DP has covered Meru and Embu. This week, he will be in Murang’a, Kirinyaga, Nyeri and Tharaka Nithi. He is coming on an empowerment mission for the youth and women, then he will worship with us,” he told the Star on the phone. “The hustler movement whose leader is none other than the DP has swept the entire nation. It is a movement that is not about the leaders but the common mwananchi.”