KCSE and KCPE candidates that were to sit exams this year resume classes next week in readiness for their assessment in March 2021. Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha has also announced that those in Grade 4 under the Competency-Based Curriculum will also be resuming classes on October 12. The students going back to schools will also only have a one-week holiday in December before their examinations slated to start on March 22 for KCPE and March 25 for KCSE. Deputy President William Ruto says that those planting chaos in his meetings with Kenyans will not intimidate him. The DP alleged that the spots of violence being witnessed in his meetings were a product of those uncomfortable with the conversion of the empowerment of the ordinary people. Ruto said that the police knew who had organized the chaos in Murang’a, Kajiado and Kisii ahead of his meetings. He reiterated that no kind of intimidation would stop him from discharging his duties and his call for a change in political conversation in Kenya. Businesswoman Tabitha Mungai has claimed that the Director of Public Prosecution Noordin Haji is under pressure from a third party not to prosecute those responsible for her daughter’s death. In an affidavit, which was initially objected to by the state on claims that it was not properly filed, the Keroche Breweries CEO said her family believes that the DPP is responding to instructions or pressure. Tecra died on May 2 at Nairobi hospital while undergoing treatment. Late Tecra's boyfriend Omar Lali was arrested and kept in custody for some time but the DPP dropped the murder case against him in July and ordered for an inquest. Scientists appear divided as to whether Kenya will actually face a 'second wave' of Covid-19 infections. Last month, the government warned of a possible 'second wave' should there be public laxity or relaxation of containment measures. However, some studies say there is unlikely to be an implosion of infections and fatalities in the future. According to the World Health Organisation, the pandemic appears as a single, large outbreak with ups and downs - discounting the idea of a 'second wave.' The latest model on the outbreak in Kenya does not project a 'second wave' but slightly raised infections because of relaxed health measures. A video of President Donald Trump returning to the White House on after being treated for COVID-19 in hospital has been the talk of the Internet. Trump appeared to have difficulty breathing after climbing a set of stairs at the White House. The US president had been hospitalized after contracting the virus but left the hospital on Monday evening. He arrived at the White House in front of cameras, climbed a set of stairs, and removed his mask before saluting the helicopter before retreating inside.