One of my all-time favourite TV shows is the British series Yes Minister and its sequel Yes Prime Minister. It was a cleverly written show and during my recent trip to this nation’s capital, Pretoria, for my tango with bureaucracy, I had reason to recall a line from the show. Of course, I had to check with Google just to make sure I had the line correct. The line is spoken by the hapless Jim Hacker, the Minister and later Prime Minister of the series being a tribalist and using tribal stereotypes against fellow Europeans. Hacker said: “The typical Common Market (now the EU) official is said to have the organising capacity of the Italians, the flexibility of the Germans and the modesty of the French. He tops all that up with the imagination of the Belgians, the generosity of the Dutch, and the intelligence of the Irish” If you understand the tribal stereotypes of Europe, as seen by the British, or even if you have read several Asterix the Gaul comics, you will appreciate the sentiment. If not, let me try to explain: The British think they are perfect and everyone else is the problem. So in their eyes the Italians are chaotic, the Germans, unbending, the French are show-offs, the Belgians boring and the Irish, not very bright. While stereotyping people based on tribe, race, language, sex, gender, sexual orientation etc, is wrong, there are those who believe that sometimes stereotypical beliefs hold some degree of truth in them. When I got to the High Commission in Pretoria, it was brought to my attention that I had not completed all the pages of a particular form. There was the part of the form where they demand to know your maternal grandmother’s cousin’s paternal uncle’s sister-in-law’s maiden name and blood type, or something like that, but in my rush I had missed this query. The lady who pointed it out to me, was a South African employee of the embassy and after a decade dealing with bureaucrats in this country I must say if I were Jim Hacker, I would say they were Germanic in their attitude. Whereas many Kenyan civil servants of my experience will make allowances for such a situation, their South African counterparts insist on every “i” being dotted and every “t” being crossed and no two ways about it. If it had all been up to this formidable woman, who was just doing her job, might I add, I would have had to go away, start the process all over again and only return when everything was ship-shape and Bristol fashion, as it were. My histrionics and long stories about how I genuinely missed the question did not move her and the fact that I only had a few hours before the consulate closed for the week, was not her problem. Again, rightly so. Thankfully my fellow Kenyans are always susceptible to a “woiyee” story and it would seem my melodramatic behaviour over having to return to Cape Town only to come back to Pretoria when everything was properly done, had actually caught the attention of a sympathetic Kenyan staffer. After they had practically walked me through the documentation and exercised the patience of a saint, I finally got all my stuff sorted and managed to leave the embassy within minutes of closing time. Despite these differences in our bureaucratic approach, the foreign stereotype of Kenyans is of hard-working, boring people. Meanwhile many foreigners stereotype South Africans as lazy, but fun-loving. Perhaps in a few cases here and there these stereotypes are true, but it would be wrong to generalise. Anyway, this is not a debate I want to engage in, as doing so would leave me without a home. My fellow Kenyans would ostracise me and so would my “shemejis.” But if we ever meet in private and off the record, ask me and I will tell you what I really think.