Is there a plot by some government insiders to have the Building Bridges Initiative taskforce disbanded? Sources whispered to Corridors that there is a silent but intense war on whether to have the taskforce oversee the last phase of the process. Those who want the 14-member team headed by Senator Yusuf Haji (above) to survive say they will protect the process from political infiltration and give the process “decency”. The Haji team was so guarded that there was no leakage of what it was doing. But others say the process requires technical competence and only “draftsmen” should take over. Maybe President Uhuru Kenyatta will end the tag of war today at the Bomas of Kenya. President Uhuru Kenyatta was given a hero's welcome in Kisumu last week. So overwhelmed was he that at the conclusion of his trip, he jokingly said he could get “someone” from the region. Some  Uhuru allies were heard whispering that the task of convincing their people to “open their hearts” to opposition chief Raila Odinga now falls squarely on their shoulders. Raila is set to be hosted by the Kikuyu Council of Elders on Friday in Nyeri. A joint tour of Uhuru and Raila of the same region to market the BBI is also said to scheduled for November 3. Will Central reciprocate the love? A Nyanza lawmaker is having sleepless nights following a flurry of activities by a businessman in his constituency. The business mogul, known for his deep pockets and foreign networks, has been crisscrossing the metropolitan constituency giving out assistance to the vulnerable. This has not gone down well with the incumbent, who is reading politics in the philanthropy. Moles whispered to Corridors that the lawmaker has not been resting since the businessman hit the ground and is contemplating changing his political base just to avoid a contest given that the businessman also enjoys a cordial relationship with ODM leader Raila Odinga. A legislator from Western is said to be worried after learning that her constituents have discovered that she has flooded her office with relatives. Her woes are deepening especially on realising that this is likely to cost her politically in the coming elections. The legislator is said to go against public service policy that demands that one should not practise nepotism in public service. Her constituents are unhappy and have promised to teach her a lesson in the next election.  - mwaniki fm