The warrant of arrest for Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi for failing to attend court to testify in a criminal case against four businessmen has been suspended. George Ngugi, Abdul Aziz Alim, Moses Musee Maluki and Noah Akala Aduwo are charged with attempting to extort Sh30 million from the governor. Senior principal magistrate Eunice Nyutu of the Milimani Anti-Corruption Court suspended the arrest order after a successful application by Kingi's lawyer George Kithi that the governor did not deliberately fail to appear in court. According to Kithi, the governor was not served personally with the first summons requiring him to attend court to testify in the case he is the complainant. The lawyer said the earlier summons were served to his office secretary upon which she forwarded the same to a chief officer in the governor's office. He said Kingi got the summons after the investigating officer sent him a copy of the summons through WhatsApp. Kithi apologised on behalf of the governor, saying he is willing to attend court to testify in the case. He also said there were ongoing negotiations between the governor and the accused and the parties needed time to conclude the talks with the intention of withdrawing the case from court. However, the state opposed the request for more time, saying it is not aware of the negotiations and that even if that was the case, the parties can continue talking as the hearing continued. The magistrate directed the governor to attend the court this morning (Friday) to testify and also lifted arrest warrant against witness Ahmed Ibrahim for failure to appear in court. Kithi had told the court that Ahmed was sick and pleaded that he be given time to recover. The arrest warrants against Kingi and Ahmed were issued on Wednesday. Ngugi, Aziz, Maluki and Aduwo are traders in Mombasa. They have denied attempting to extort Sh30 million from Kingi on June 20, 2018, at Gracia Hotel in Kilimani, Nairobi. They are said to have introduced themselves as sleuths from Ethnic and Anti-Corruption Commission to Ahmed investigating a corruption case against Kingi at Kilifi county government. The prosecution said the case had been adjourned several times because of Kingi failing to appear for the hearing. Each of the accused is out on Sh600,000 bail. The case will be mentioned today.  - mwaniki fm