The Met department says the current weather—rains all over Western Kenya and large parts of the Rift Valley—will continue for another seven days. The department also predicts strong winds at the Coast this week. Kenya Meteorological Services director Stella Aura said the current temperatures will also continue. She said Lake Victoria basin and Rift Valley highlands will have rains in the afternoon and night. A few areas are also likely to receive occasional rain in the morning. "Occasional heavy storms are likely to occur over some parts of the areas. A few areas in the Northeast, the Southeastern lowlands and the Coastal Strip are likely to receive light to moderate rainfall," she said in a seven-day forecast ending October 26. These regions comprise Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia counties. Central Kenya including Nairobi, Embu, Meru, Nyeri, Nyandarua, Murang'a and Kiambu counties will be largely cloudy in the morning and but will have rains in the afternoon in several places, which will reduce at night. The rest of the country will also have a chance for rain this week. The rain marks the start of the short rains season in most places. However, the rain will largely be below average due to the La Nina, which is associated with diminished rainfall over Kenya. A natural cooling of certain parts of the equatorial Pacific ocean, La Nina sets in motion a series of changes to the world's weather that can last months, even years. Experts say the current phase of La Nina could last until March next year, but the good news is that it is expected to remain weak to moderate. The last La Niña was in 2017-18. It was a short-lived weak-to-moderate event that started developing in November 2017 and ended in April 2018. The World Food Programme warned of food insecurity in East Africa in 2021. "Indicative preliminary forecasts and historical data raise the possibility of drier than average conditions for the long rains season of March-May 2021," WFP said in a statement on September 24. "If realised, very considerable impacts on the food security of already vulnerable populations can be expected throughout 2021." The Ministry of Agriculture has already advised farmers to plant fast-growing crops during the short rain season. Edited by Henry Makori