AFC Leopards winger Peter Thiong’o is over the moon after his two-year long wait for a maiden Harambee Stars call up. Thiong'o, who switched to the Den from Kakamega Homeboyz in August was included in the 40-man provisional squad released by coach Jacob ‘Ghost’ Mulee in preparation for next month’s Africa Cup of Nations qualifier double against Comoros. Stars will host the first leg at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani on November 11 and travel to Moroni for the return leg three days later. Thiong'o claimed his first call up alongside Canada-based Mathew Olake, who is currently unattached. He revealed that his journey to convince the national team technical bench to consider started in 2018 after being summoned for the 2020 Olympics qualifier against  Mauritius. The former Nakuru All Stars player had hoped to manoeuvre his way to the senior team after featuring in the junior side but his efforts did not yield instant results. He credits last season’s hard work, discipline, consistency and patience for the call up which he believes will be the first of many. “This is an opportunity I do not wish to squander after sacrificing a lot to get it. I will head to camp with an intention of proving something to the coach as well as help the team grind out positive results,” said the former St Joseph Youth FC player. Similarly, Gor Mahia rookie Benson Omala is elated after earning his second successive call up to the team. The Form Four student at Kisumu Day High School received his first call up this month when Stars were gearing for an international friendly against Zambia. He, however, did not report to camp but has expressed hope that he will train with the team when the locally-based players report to non-residential camp on Wednesday and subsequently force his way into the final squad. “It's positive news for me once again to be called to the team. I have a dream of at least making the final squad and probably get some playing time. I am not under any pressure to justify my inclusion neither am I afraid of the competition posed by the experienced strikers who have been called,” he said. Meanwhile, Ghost who returned to the team for the fifth time last week, replacing Francis Kimanzi, has recalled former assistant skipper and Zesco United defender David ‘Calabar’ Owino while dropping Simba SC playmaker Francis Kahata. Calabar lastly featured for Stars in last year’s Afcon finals in Egypt. The experienced defender troops back to the squad alongside Tusker duo of winger Boniface Muchiri and Robert Mboya. Homeboyz’ longest-serving player Moses Mudavadi and the Kariobangi Sharks pair of Brian Bwire and Daniel Sakari were also drafted into the team for the first time since last year's Cecafa Senior Challenge finals held in Uganda. Also making a comeback to the team is Wazito creative midfielder Musa Masika,Spain based midfielder Ismael Gonzalez,Sofapaka captain Elli Asieche and Eric  'Marcelo' Ouma who was overlooked for the Zambian tie as he had not fully recovered from an injury and a subsequent surgery suffered in May. Goalkeepers: Arnold Origi (HIFK, Finland), Robert Mboya (Tusker), Brian Bwire (Kariobangi Sharks), Ian Otieno (Zesco United, Zambia), Timothy Odhiambo (Ulinzi Stars); Defenders: Johnstone Omurwa (Wazito), Brian Mandela (Unattached), Joash Onyango (Simba, Tanzania), Daniel Sakari (Kariobangi Sharks), Andrew Juma (Gor Mahia), Mike Kibwage (Sofapaka), Joseph Okumu (Elfsborg, Sweden), Samuel Olwande (Kariobangi Sharks), Baraka Badi (KCB), David Owino (Zesco United, Zambia), Hillary Wandera (Tusker), Eric Ouma (AIK, Sweden), David Owino (Mathare United); Midfielders: Kenneth Muguna (Gor Mahia), Victor Wanyama (Impact Montreal, Canada), Ismael Gonzalez (UD Las Palmas, Spain), Eric Johanna Omondi (Jonkoping’s Sodra, Sweden), Cliff Nyakeya (Masr FC, Egypt), Anthony Akumu (Kaizer Chiefs, South Africa), Musa Masika (Wazito), Bonface Muchiri (Tusker) Lawrence Juma (Sofapaka), Johanna Omolo (Cercle Brugge, Belgium), Ayub Timbe (Unattached), Peter Thion’go (AFC Leopards), Hassan Abdallah (Bandari), Elli Asieche (Sofapaka), Matthew Olake (Unattached), Moses Mudavadi (Kakamega Homeboyz), Austin Odhiambo (AFC Leopards); Forwards: Michael Olunga (Kashiwa Reysol, Japan), Benson Omala (Gor Mahia), Masud Juma (JS Kabylie, Algeria), John Avire (Tanta FC, Egypt), Oscar Wamalwa (Ulinzi Stars); Reserves: Dennis Sikhayi (Wazito), James Kinyanjui (Mathare United). 