Kongamano La Mageuzi (KLM) has criticized the proposals in the Building Bridges Initiative, saying that the entire project is illegal. Issuing their statement on Sunday, KLM said that the process that was used to create BBI Taskforce was illegal from the start to the end. “President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga singularly handpicked members of the BBI Taskforce,” KLM said. KLM said that the proposals made in the BBI report would weaken the Constitution and undermine democracy if it is implemented. “Those proposals are especially intended to benefit a few members of the political elite and not for the overall benefit of Kenyans.” It said that the proposals to expand representatives in the Parliament are contrary to the voice of Kenyans who have been raising concern about the wastage by having a top-heavy and inefficient political system. Regarding the Executive, the group said that the BBI proposals seek to cater to a specific personal interest and not beneficial to the country. “BBI seeks to create a dysfunctional and mongrel Executive with the chilling effect of extending that dysfunctionality to the Parliament by requiring CSs to also sit in Parliament.” It said the Judiciary proposals will undermine its independence. According to KLM, BBI proposals for the establishment of Judiciary Ombudsperson nominated and appointed by the President shifts accountability of judge from the Constitution to the President.” KLM added that judges will live in constant fear of being removed by the President's Ombudsperson if they do not side with the President. Further, KLM has opposed the proposal of raising the age of qualification of judges by five years. “In a country where we have a significant youth bulge, high unemployment and underemployment of young Kenyans, any constitutional provision that makes it more difficult for younger citizens to access public sector service is not only unconscionable but devious.” On the Police Council proposal, KLM noted that it will undermine the independence of the National Police Service (NPS)and the National Police Service Commission (NPSC). The group said that BBI proposals to IEBC will disenfranchise the youth and the minority. It said that closing the Register of Voters 120 days before the election will deny the majority their rights to vote. “It is clear from the BBI report that there is no intention to address issues of electoral justice. The proposals do not address fundamental flaws in the IEBC which are well documented.” KLM has reiterated that the main agenda of the BBI is to reintroduce and consolidate the imperial presidency.