Residents of the remote Tarakai-Ng’aror village in Tirioko ward, Baringo county, were left speechless after thunder struck dead 40 goats on Saturday. The village is located in Tiaty subcounty where banditry is rife. “Culturally, we believe thunder is a natural executor of justice and it only strikes when we disagree,” Tugen elder Richard Chepchomei said. The goats were killed around 8pm while resting in their shed, according to the owner, Lotikapel Lotudongolol. “I lost half of the entire population. I wonder, the majority of people in my village own goats. Why did the thunder choose mine?” The incident happens hardly two months after a similar one was witnessed Chewara village in Tiaty, which saw over 20 goats and one man dead. Tirioko ward MCA Sam Lokales said residents now fear for their lives and called on the county government to consider installing lightning arrestors. “Tension is high as my people fear the lightning might strike again especially if the ongoing rains persist up to December,” he said. He appealed for urgent compensation of those affected victims, saying they were robbed of their livelihood. Gunfire is still heard in the area. An unknown number of heavily armed bandits attacked Chemoe in Baringo North on Sunday, making away with over 30 goats. “The raiders stormed the village, shooting to scare away residents before vanishing with stolen animals,” Yatya chief Jackson Keitany said. The stolen goats belonged to Abraham Chelal. "They drove them through Kiplelon towards Kositei," Keitany said, adding that there was fierce exchange of fire but no one was injured. Residents have appealed to the government to embark of forceful disarmament operation and deploy more security officers to the area. On Friday, Baringo county commissioner Henry Wafula said 9,227 stolen animals have been recovered since he assumed office in January 2018. “We have worked tirelessly with the security agencies to recover the livestock and give back to the owners in parts of Baringo North and South” Wafula said. Edited by Henry Makori