Eldoret Huruma Ward MCA Peter Chomba died of Covid-19 and will be buried under strict guidelines on Wednesday, the family has said. Chomba's elder brother Lenny Chomba and uncle Kiiru Chomba said an autopsy revealed the ward rep died of Covid-19 complications. “We received the postmortem report as a family and because he was a leader in Eldoret we decided as a family to let the public know that my brother died of Covid-19,” said Lenny at a joint press briefing with Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago. Also present was assembly speaker David Kiplagat. Lenny and Kiiru said the burial arrangements will now follow the Ministry of Health guidelines. “We will work closely with the county government and adhere to guidelines we will be given by the Ministry of Health in all that we do to send our leader off,” Lenny said. A public funeral service at Huruma grounds and viewing of the body at the Uasin Gishu county assembly have been cancelled. Mandago said that the Covid-19 spread in Uasin Gishu was now alarming. “I have lost people very close to me and the public must know that the disease is real and spreading within the community,” Mandago said. He said residents had abandoned all control measures at a time when the disease was spreading within the community. Meanwhile, the Uasin Gishu county assembly has suspended its sittings and shut down all other activities following confirmation that Chomba died of Covid-19 a week ago. An internal memo from the assembly clerk Shadrack Choge directed all staff to proceed on a compulsory 21-day leave starting Monday. “This decision has been informed by the Covid-19 test that was conducted on the deceased which was confirmed to be positive,” Choge said in the memo. Choge advised the staff to strictly adhere to all measures on control of Covid-19 while on leave. Uasin Gishu has become a hot spot in the spread of Covid-19, with the county reporting more than 70 cases daily. Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital CEO Dr Wilson Aruasa has warned residents to strictly adhere to the Covid-19 control measures. “Following the resurgence of Covid infections, with unprecedented surge over the past few days, we wish to remind ourselves that prevention efforts remain key. Let’s educate and sensitise members of the public to adhere to all measures put in place,” Dr Aruasa said. He urged residents to ensure they wear masks in public spaces and avoid removing them in restaurants or pubs when not eating or drinking. Aruasa urged residents to practise handwashing with running water and soap for at least 20 seconds, regularly. He said residents should avoid public gatherings and practice strict physical and social distancing at all times.