Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa and her aide Geoffrey Otieno have been remanded for three days as they await to undergo a mental assessment. Jumwa and Otieno were to answer to murder charges but did not as they had not undergone a mental evaluation. Judge Njoki Mwangi directed the MP and her aide be remanded at Port police station and be taken to Coast General Hospital on Wednesday for the test. They are expected back in court on Thursday. Mwangi further declined to release the duo on similar bond terms that had been granted by the lower court in 2019, noting that it  was an anticipatory bond, therefore, not applicable in the current case. She said the suspects were at a liberty to seek for refund of their bond from the said court. Assistant DPP Alloys Kemo who is based in Mombasa had earlier told the court not to release Jumwa and her aide on bond as they were unreliable. He said Jumwa and Otieno had been informed to present themselves for mental test at the Coast General Hospital last Wednesday at 10am but failed to turn up. They did not give any explanation. But defence counsels led by Jared Magolo said there was miscommunication between the investigating officer and the suspects, and, therefore, Jumwa and Otieno should not be blamed for failing to appear for the test. Magolo said summons were done through WhatsApp and at the time, the suspects were in Meru. He further said the suspects were out on Sh500,000 bond each, which the court is still in possession of. Jumwa and Otieno are accused of murdering Gumbao Jola after they stormed a meeting organised by Reuben Katana, an ODM candidate in a by-election. The man was shot in the shoulder and killed during the chaos. Several other people, including police officers, were injured. Gumbao Jola, 48, died upon arrival at Malindi General Hospital. He was Katana’s uncle. Chaos erupted soon after the MP arrived at the meeting in a convoy of three vehicles forcing police officers to shoot in the air several times. Jumwa had accused Katana of campaigning long after the campaign window period had been closed. Katana was at the time hosting more than 500 people at his home. The murder charges come a few months after Jumwa was freed on Sh5 million bond after pleading not guilty to six counts of money laundering, acquiring proceeds of a crime, conflict of interest as well as fraud. 