Construction of the multimillion-shilling Marsabit stadium has resumed, with the two contractors doing the flagship project asked to meet the December 31 deadline. The County Development Implementation Coordination Committee toured the site and was impressed that the first phase done at a cost of Sh373 million was now on course after stalling for nearly three years. The committee noted that the flagship project jointly undertaken by the national and county governments had intertwined works, hence the need to harmonise operations. The county government’s contribution to the mega project is Sh78 million. Sport Kenya, on behalf of the national government, awarded a Sh295 million contract to Benisa Limited to build public pavilions besides putting up the main pitch to international standards. Sports Kenya director Gabriel Komora said the company, which has since been advanced Sh126 million, is tasked with establishing a certified athletics track and installing electrical and mechanical works. Komora assured the contractor that the money for the project was available. “The delay in completing this noble project had sent the wrong signal to the residents and especially the youth, who were being denied the opportunity to nurture their potential in sports,” he said. County commissioner Paul Rotich called for a joint approach in the implementation of the project to ensure that it is completed by the end of the year as directed by the President. Rotich said the abundance of talent of the local youth would be tapped as the facility would offer an avenue for them to train and develop their abilities. “We want to see both contractors busy at the site as there was no excuse whatsoever for Arid Lands company not to have resumed work,” said the county commissioner, who gave the firm five days to resume operations at the site. The CDICC members, who included the President’s Delivery Unit director Jared Buoga, called for the re-evaluation of Arid Lands' capacity to be awarded the second phase of the contract following revelations that they had used sub-standard materials to cast concrete columns on the main dais. The committee also noted that the flagship project which was commissioned by President Kenyatta in mid-2017 was far behind schedule. A special sub-committee with a fortnight schedule of sittings to oversee its progress was constituted. Edited by Henry Makori