Residents of North Nyakach ward have complained of poor services at Katito Level 4 Hospital. Those who spoke to the media during the release of a scorecard on health called for action to improve services. The baseline survey was conducted by Transform Empowerment for Action Initiative (Team) in partnership with Uraia through funding from Danida. The residents said the facility was not serving its core function as patients find it difficult to get proper medication. Kennedy Odhiambo said it was unfortunate that sometimes patients have to buy drugs for illnesses like malaria. “The situation in the facility needs improvement. It cannot even handle emergency matters yet they have ambulances there and you can't be helped,” he said. Odhiambo said they were contemplating organising a demonstration to push the county government to act. Nyakach is in Kisumu county. “Some people are asleep on the job while the public who are taxpayers are suffering,” Odhiambo said. Everline Okuto, a community health worker in the area, said many patients had suffered, with some seeking medical attention in neighbouring hospitals. Okuto recalled how a young woman nearly lost her life after being turned away from the hospital since they could not attend to her. She questioned why the hospital could not release the ambulance to take the woman who was about to give birth to another hospital. Okuto said such occurrences are heart-wrenching and should be condemned. Team programme officer Cliff Ochieng' said the initiative is aimed at giving the public a voice to air their grievances and to help in coming up with solutions. Ochieng' said the public must engage their leaders in demanding for proper services. "We are also educating the community to know how to follow up on the implementation of projects and how resources are being utilised in the health docket and the kind of services they should be offered," he said. He said the scorecard exposed a lack of essential drugs at the hospital and a poor relationship between the hospital management and the community.  Edited by Henry Makori