Denmark-based Tyler Okari, Joel Awich (France) and Desmond Owili (Australia) are among the diaspora players, who have confirmed availability for next month’s FIBA Afro-Basket qualifiers in Kigali, Rwanda. Morans coach said the three are expected in the country a few days before the team departs for the show that tips off November 25. Okari and Owili were in the side that won the pre-qualifiers in January while Joel Awich, son to former Kenya women star forward Lynette Awich is a first timer. “I have talked to them and they have told me they would like to be here few days before departure. I am also in touch with the rest of the diaspora players and I will keep you posted as the event draws nearer,” he said. Owuor named nine diaspora players into his provisional side that also included 10 local-based players. The local-based players started their trainings at Nyayo Stadium gymnasium last Tuesday. Owuor said he expects the training to pick up before this weekend when all players will be available. He pointed out that despite missing action for the last seven months due to Covid-19 restrictions, the players do not look out of shape if the training is anything to go by. “They have been out of action for a long time but I am happy with what I have seen. Their shooting is encouraging,” he said. He went on: “We will gradually get there as we continue with our daily sessions.” The players were working out together for the first time in a long while and they admitted it feels good to play basketball once again. Forward James Mwangi, who missed both the Afro-Can in Mali and the Pre-qualifiers in Nairobi in January due to work commitment, said he hopes to make the team this time. Captain Griffin Ligare, Joseph Khaemba, Faheem Juma, Victor Odendo, Eric Mutoro, Victor Ochieng and Mwangi have all reported for training. Kenya are in Group ‘B’ alongside former champions Angola, Senegal and Mozambique. Owuor said he is happy the event was moved from Senegal to Rwanda, where he hopes to bank on the home fans to spur his boys. The tactician was in Kigali for 13 years as APR coach. “Having coached in Rwanda for many years, I am sure of the Rwandese support during the games will be an added advantage,” he said. The second window will be played in February with the top three sides booking their tickets to the 16-team bonanza also slated for Kigali.