A 12-kilometre secondary sewer distribution and a two-kilometre stormwater drain are under construction in Ruiru, Kiambu county, to improve sanitation. The project is being undertaken by the municipality under the Kenya Urban Support Programme at a cost of Sh166 million. The system will direct effluent and stormwater to trunk sewers at Gatharaine and Kiuu. Residents say the ongoing project will help get rid of the poor and unreliable septic tank system that lead to constant spillage and overflow in Githurai, Kiuu, and Kahawa Wendani residential areas. “This will drastically change our lives. Over the years, the population in these areas has grown and housing expanded, especially following the completion of the Thika highway,” Githurai resident Susan Wambui said. She said during the rainy season, they are regularly displaced for two to three months as their homes become inaccessible because of septic effluent. The sewer system will start from Githurai through Kiuu to Kahawa Wendani, while the water drain will start from Chuma Mbili through Corner ya Bata to the Kiuu River. At about 200 metres from the highway, it was observed that precautions and requirements against environmental pollution are being ignored by residents of Chuma Mbili, Githurai. Dirty water with quantities of solids, chemicals, and other pollutants was flowing towards Kwa Bata to the Kiuu River. Isaac Kamau, a father of three and a resident, says he has to closely monitor his children as they play to ensure they do not fall into the sewage. In 2009 and 2010 Athi Water Works Development Agency, under the Water and Sanitation Service Improvement Project (WASSIP II), installed several trunk sewers to ease sewer connectivity to Githurai, Kiuu, Kahawa Sukari and Kahawa Wendani. However, secondary sewers to link these centres to the trunk sewers have not been constructed because of lack of finances. Addressing residents of Wendani last week, Kiambu Governor James Nyoro said the government is committed to transforming the outlook and value of the property through the provision of proper sanitation services. Ruiru municipality manager Fredrick Mwangi has urged Ruiru residents and landlords to connect waste and stormwater to the secondary sewer line. This is meant to increase the number of residents with access to sewer services and reduce cases of pollution and waterborne diseases related to hazardous liquid waste. Small-scale traders, who are the most affected by open sewers and stormwater, have welcomed the project. "We hope the project will be completed before the start of the rainy season, to forestall sewer overflows to our homes and business stalls,” Grace Nyakio, a vegetable seller, said. According to the project engineer, the project to be completed in one year will also address the challenge of contaminating ground and surface water resources. This will, in turn, eradicate water contamination and diseases as a result of flooding of homes, access roads and business premises.