Nzoia Sugar striker Jeremiah Wanjala is up in arms after the club expunged him from the playing unit ahead of the 2020/2021  season under unclear circumstances. Wanjala, who was diagnosed with Lymphoma cancer (non hogdkin lympoma) in April, revealed that the doctors had given him a clean bill of health to resume training with the team only for his dream to return to competitive football again to be punctured by the club's decision. The former Posta Rangers forward, who believes he has three more seasons before calling it a day, regretted that the club took the decision without consulting him or his agent and in disregard of the terms in his contract. However, the club chairman Evance Kadenge in a rebuttal, admitted that the  striker will not be part of the team but will continue to receive his salary until his two-year contract ends. "The management is not fully convinced that he is fully fit to play again considering that he was battling a deadly disease. We will, however, back-date his payments and continue paying him until his contract ends," he said. Wanjala, who joined the club in January from National Super League side, Ushuru, termed the decision as an insult as he had received salary twice this year, forcing him to go out of his way to fend for his family and cater for his expensive medication. The former Kakamega Homeboyz player, who rates his fitness levels at 70 percent, said he expected the club to keep his slot in the unit on humanitarian grounds. "I am annoyed with the club for removing me from the team without giving any explanation. I am slowly regaining my fitness after the doctors cleared me to resume training. Although they did not scrap my name off the payroll, I did not take their resolve to expel me from the team lightly. They say they will continue paying me but it is my wish to earn it through training. I expected them to show some sympathy and support my dream of playing again in the top flight," he rued. Despite being locked out, Wanjala disclosed that he doesn't harbour any hard feelings towards his employers. The goal poacher revealed that after his services were deemed surplus, he resorted to train with his boyhood club Lwakhupa FC, where he also doubles up as the head coach. He says should he fail to get another club, he will hang his boots and venture into coaching. "Much as I did not agree with their decision, I do not have a problem with them. I am even looking forward to play a friendly match against them at the Sudi Stadium to demonstrate that I still have something to offer to the team either on the pitch or the technical bench," he said.