Former United States president Barrack Obama has sent quick recovery wishes to his successor Donald Trump and First Lady after they tested positive for Covid-19. “Michelle and I hope that the President, First Lady, and all those affected by the coronavirus around the country are getting the care they need and are on the path to a speedy recovery,” Obama tweeted on Saturday. “Obviously, we’re in the midst of a big political battle right now, and while there’s a lot at stake, let’s remember that we’re all Americans. We’re all human beings. And we want everyone to be healthy, no matter our party.” Trump who is now in a military hospital broke the news of his and wife Melania Trump Coronavirus status in a tweet early on Friday. "I think I'm doing very well, but we're going to make sure that things work out," Trump said in a brief video message. This is an extraordinary development that upended the presidential race a month before the November 3 election. Obama has previously criticised Trump over his response to the coronavirus crisis. In a private conference call in May, he called the US handling of the pandemic "an absolute chaotic disaster". His remarks were made while encouraging former staff to work for Joe Biden's presidential election team. Roughly 17 hours after Trump made his diagnosis public, he walked slowly from the White House to a waiting helicopter to be taken to Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda, Maryland. He wore a mask and business suit and did not speak to reporters. Trump will work in a special suite at the hospital for the next few days as a precautionary measure, White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany said. Trump, 74, has a mild fever, according to a source familiar with the matter. White House doctor Sean P. Conley said late on Friday that Trump was doing very well, did not need supplemental oxygen, and had received a first dose of Remdesivir, an intravenous antiviral drug sold by Gilead Sciences Inc that has been shown to shorten hospital stays.