AN MP FROM Rift Valley who was once a staunch supporter and defender of Deputy President William Ruto (pictured) has gone mute. The Tangatanga-allied lawmaker often featured in media debates castigating President Uhuru Kenyatta for humiliating the DP. But he no longer talks. Close allies of Ruto suspect the MP was silenced with state responsibilities in a docket that is implementing projects key to the President's legacy. The man has been edged out of Ruto’s inner cycle as he is suspected to be a mole. The lawmaker is seen to be aiding legislative proposals that Uhuru has key interests in. A SENIOR OFFICIAL in the Housing Department is on a borrowed time. Reason? A mole in the department says investigators have been trailing the man's illegal activities which are often executed in conjunction with cartels in Nairobi. The official who owns several apartments in the city’s Langata area has been blocking water from reaching residents. He runs boreholes that sell water to independent bowsers for distribution to city residents. Reportedly, the owners of the tankers he sells the water to are the same cartels that constantly interfere with the smooth flow of supply in the city so they can get an opportunity to sell their water. City residents are now appealing to Nairobi Metropolitan Services Director General Mohammed Badi to arrest the culprits. A POLITICAL FIGURE in the country has reportedly been tasked to persuade a member of a constitutional agency to quit office. He has been enticed with an entitlement of Sh20 million. The stalwart and emissaries have been meeting at a city hotel to broker the deal. However, nothing has so far been forthcoming. Corridors understand that a huge war chest has been assembled to woo the members out of the agency to pave way for the recruitment of a new team. However, it is understood that top officials have expressed reservations that the money will be an erasable blot in their career and life and will leave them forever condemned in the eyes of the public. AS THE DEBATE on the Building Bridges Initiative report rages on, a team of 'technocrats and think-tanks' is said to be positioning themselves to make a kill in case of a referendum. Sources whispered to Corridors that these characters are keenly praying for a political contest akin to the 2005 plebiscite. It is said they have positioned their companies to win lucrative contracts for supplies of various merchandise that will be used during the campaigns.