Narok county is using Weholite pipes – large diameter, lightweight pipes made from high density polyethylene – to build its sewerage system. Its manufacturers say Weholite pipes are great in low pressure or gravity applications for drinking water storage, storm water management and in sewerage systems. The county has partnered with Megapipes Solutions to get the technology that is touted for its durability. Narok county has had problems with sanitation but officials say the sewer system will fix the problem. Water, Environment and Health executive John Kiyiapi said the county had used a quarry near the town as a disposal area but it was shut down last year. The National Environment Management Authority closed the quarry after waste began to spill over into the adjacent Enkare Narok River. “Although we had good temporary spaces that the county government had designated, the population of Narok is rapidly growing creating pressure on the disposal areas. Similarly, it became increasingly expensive for residents to keep using exhausters,” Kiyiapi said. He said the county invested in the Weholite pipes because it takes a shorter time to install, requires less manpower and maintenance and lasts longer. The Narok Water and Sewerage Company managing director Stanley Kuyioni said the sewer project is critical for the housing and health sectors. “Most of the diseases treated at our health centres and hospitals are water and sanitation-related. Issues such as open defecation are a serious problem as there are no available alternatives,” he added. The project has come at a good time and will greatly help the county achieve a good quality of life for its residents, Kuyioni said. Megapipes Solutions managing director Jürg Flühmann said Weholite offers chemical and physical advantages over other traditional materials. “Superior hydraulics and abrasion resistance mean that it will not corrode or deteriorate over time, making it a long-lasting solution for projects in Kenya,” Flühmann said. He said the new production techniques and latest raw materials combine for a durable pipe system with superior load-bearing properties. A factory for Weholite pipes is being constructed in Ruiru in Kiambu county to serve the Kenyan and East African markets. 