After seven months of closure, schools cannot afford to lose even a minute after Monday's reopening. A considerable number of parents sent their children back to school, although some institutions registered relatively low numbers. This is because, parents presumed Monday to be a holiday on count of the public holiday of October 10 (Huduma Day) that fell on a Saturday. On that count, the association believes it could have been the reason of the low turnout. However, the idea that some parents were afraid of sending learners back to class is far-fetched. The situation has improved a great deal and parents need to know that their children stand losing out on their academics further if they fail to show up in school. Their is no time to waste. Schools will be working around the clock and as early as tomorrow we expect that schools will have dived into teaching and learning. The Kenya National Examination Council will be conducting an assessment on all learners who have reported back to school. The purpose of the assessment is to work as a blueprint to guide teachers and schools where they will begin. However, as an association we have three concerns we would wish to reiterate. One, is enforcement of the directive to school heads  not to send learners home for lack of fees. We are coming from a particularly difficult moment for everyone and, like CS George Magoha has said, schools should first utilise the money sent to them by the Exchequer. It is only fair that parents are protected not just by proclamations but also through a structural and uniform way of enforcement. Only through this would we protect the vulnerable learners. Secondly, schools should not let their guard down on safety of learners. They must adhere to the regulations. If there are institutions that are yet to install water points for hand hygiene, yet to purchase masks and so on, they need to put things in order. Third, parents want psychological support be offered to learners. We cannot assume that they are okay. Teachers need to establish those who might have been traumatised physically, mentally and emotionally. They should identify proper ways of handling such matters. Nicholas Maiyo is chairman, Kenya Parents Association