Deputy President William Ruto and his Tangataga allies on Thursday criticised the Building Bridges Initiative, saying it is a tool meant to entrench dynasties in power. Vowing to change the narrative, Ruto said the initiative was primarily focused on dividing seats among the political elite at the expense of the poor. Ruto said the country's political debate going forward should not be built around the political elite but through a conscious and deliberate effort to improve the welfare of the majority of poor Kenyans. "If they are going to want us to talk about leaders we must tell them let's talk about you, if they tell us to talk about the Prime minister, we will tell them let's talk about the boda boda, if they tell us to begin with them, we will tell them to begin from down here with you, we cannot eternally continue to talk of building Kenya on the quick sand of the greedy those seeking posts through the BBI," said Ruto. The DP said Kenyans struggling against poverty should inform the direction of the country's politics and not those perpetuating dynasties. Ruto said his will be an iron resolve and commitment to leverage the agenda of those downtrodden, abandoned and disconnected from political power. "Safari hii tutambea pamoja, tutakuwa na ninyi had mwisho (this time we shall walk together till the end," stated the Deputy President. Ruto finally held rallies in Nyamira after two of his functions were called off last week by security agencies. Ruto was to land at Kebirigo but security chased away crowds that had turned up to welcome him. Police used teargas to disperse the supporters that had begun to build up at Kebirigo High School. Ruto criticised top security officials over the disruption. "You cannot sit somewhere and begin to order people not to visit this or that place. Kenya is a free country and every person is free to go anywhere he wants. Let's stop this foolishness once and for all," said Ruto. He said giving orders to stop church fundraisers was primitive. He absolved the police, saying the onus rests on those giving them orders to "turn the gun and teargas on their fellow hustlers" . The DP was accompanied by legislatiors Ndindi Nyoro (, Kiharu), Rigathi Gachagua (, Mathira) Shadrack Mose (, Kitutu Masaba), Vincent Mose (North Mugirango) Joash Nyamoko (West Mugirango) and Silvanus Osoro (South Mugirango). Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi who was present said the 'hustler' movement was unstoppable. He said the DP's hand of charity has blessed many. MP Nyoro asked Matiang'i to apologise to the nation over the fatal chaos witnessed in Kenol, Murang'a, two weeks ago. 