Even as Kenya prepares to launch the BBI report at Bomas, President Uhuru Kenyatta is interestingly also celebrating his birthday. The launch of the BBI report is seen as a birthday gift handed over to Uhuru who turns 59 years today. He was born on October 26, 1961, to Kenya’s founding father Mzee Jomo Kenyatta and Mama Ngina Kenyatta. Uhuru and his counterpart ODM leader Raila Odinga have been championing for the report urging Kenyans to read it before commenting on it. The duo is expected to roll out joint BBI rallies to market the report and lobby for national support in the coming days to counter opponents of the report. Delegates drawn from the 47 counties converge at the Bomas of Kenya to witness the official unveiling of the report by Uhuru and ODM chief Raila Odinga. But this is not the first time Uhuru’s birthday is falling on the same day a major event is occurring in the country. Today is also the third anniversary of the presidential repeat election that was conducted on October 26, 2017. Uhuru was made to spend his birthday queuing to vote and monitoring the electoral process after the August elections were declared null and void by the supreme court over illegalities and irregularities. It is the win that was handed over to Uhuru as his 'birthday gift'. Kenyans were also quick to wish Uhuru a happy birthday via social media platforms. Last year, Deputy President William Ruto wished the president a happy birthday and in his birthday message told Uhuru he was looking forward to their retirement plans as they age together. "As we age, am looking forward to what we agreed to do when we retire!! Remember? UBARIKIWE MPAKA USHANGAE!" Ruto said. Uhuru announced on several occasions that he is not interested in extending his rule or taking up any other executive post once he completes his second and final term as President in 2022. There have been rumours across political circles that Uhuru may take up another executive post once his term comes to an end in 2022. This is entrenched in the Building Bridges Initiative which champions for an expansion of the executive with the introduction of the powerful Prime Minister post.