 The Kenya National Elders Council has embarked on a reconciliation drive of  political bigwigs in the wake of concerns raised by the international community over rising political temperatures. On Wednesday, the council under the leadership of patron (retired) Captain Kung’u Muigai held back-to-back meetings with Deputy President William Ruto and Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi. Two days earlier, the elders had met Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka. Kung'u told the Star they hoped to meet ODM leader Raila Odinga on Wednesday but the former Prime Minister asked for another date since he was to travel abroad. “The former Prime Minister said he would meet us at a later date since the President had dispatched him to the Democratic Republic of Congo,” he said. He insisted that the meetings were not political and were aimed at uniting the country's political leadership. The patron said the move to preach unity and peace was an initiative of the elders and not President Uhuru Kenyatta or any other leader. “We will also be going to see the President to give him the same message we have given the others. The political temperatures are high and we have to do something or else we will be asked about where we were should things go wrong,” he said. The more than 30 elders drawn from the top leadership of the council headed by Phares Rutere as chairman first met the DP at his Karen office. They met for four hours before the elders met Mudavadi in the afternoon. “We told the DP not to attack Raila in his rallies. We will also tell Raila not to attack the Deputy President when we meet him,” Kung'u said. At Musalia Mudavadi Centre, the elders asked the ANC leader to preach peace and unity in his meetings. “If peace is disrupted, the economy will collapse and it is the old, women and children who suffer the most. We do not have the energy to run when chaos erupt,” council vice-chairman John Seii said. Mudavadi said leaders, especially politicians, should learn to respect the law. “You will sometimes find that politicians are at the forefront in breaking the law,” he said. During the meeting with the DP, the elders commended him for the role he had played in uniting the country and urged him to continue striking working relations with other leaders. They also told the DP that they were impressed with the cordial relationship he and the President expressed during the launch of the BBI report. He said the encounter between Uhuru and Ruto had brought down the political temperatures in the country and gave Kenyans some renewed hope. “By the two leaders embracing each other, it signalled that they are united and working together towards a cohesive and more prosperous country,” Kung'u said. He added, “We slept comfortably and peacefully. We encourage the two leaders to continue working together for our future is dependent on them.” He urged the country to rally behind the President and his deputy, observing that the two had managed to tighten Kenya’s social fabric. Other speakers noted that the politics of ethnicity, hate and division should be discouraged if Kenya is to be transformed. Rutere, who is the former Njuri Ncheke secretary-general, said elders must be on the frontline in cultivating issue-based politics. “We should tirelessly guide society and engage with leaders. That way, we would place Kenya on a transformative path,” he said. Ruto called on the elders to take the lead in preaching unity and end negative ethnicity. “Elders must take the lead to preach unity and end ethnicity in our country. They must mentor the youth to be responsible leaders, moderate our politics to be less confrontational but more issue-based and encourage the establishment of national rather than tribal political parties. "That way, we stand to have a meaningful development that will make Kenya more peaceful,” the DP said.  Edited by P.O