Campaigns will have to be conducted through social and mainstream media, IEBC has said in its Covid protocols released on Monday. For areas where gatherings are inevitable, then the guidelines for crowd management will be followed. The measures will apply to all electoral activities, including elections and a referendum. In a report on Monday, IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati said the guidelines will be included in the code of conduct and will be signed by all parties before the start of campaigns. During election day, the following measures will enhance prevention of the exposure to Covid-19: The Returning Officer shall ensure disinfection of all polling stations, sanitizers, clean water and soap are available in all polling stations. They will also ensure that polling stations have Personal Protective Equipment(PPE); they will make arrangements with county governments on standby ambulances – at least one ambulance per ward and ensure that a polling station is manned by a queuing clerk. On the eve of voting, the Presiding Officer  shall collect elections materials including the personal protective equipment from the returning officer. The presiding officer shall leave the tallying center for the polling station in the company of the deputy presiding officer and two security officers. On arrival at the polling station, the presiding officer shall confirm availability of election materials including Personal Protective equipment. "The Commission shall update and review these guidelines from time to time based on prevailing circumstances," Chebukati said. Guidelines for Conducting Voter Registration Disinfection: The commission offices, meeting venues and registration centers will be thoroughly cleaned after use and disinfected prior to opening. Registration centre layout. The registration centre layout will be redesigned to comply with the protocols established by health authorities. Use of personal protective equipment and best practices: The returning officer and his team shall wear masks at all times. Where necessary, the RO and his team shall use face shields, gloves, disposable or rewashable caps, masks and neckstrips while attending to voters. Limiting people in office. The number of visitors per visit will be limited to bear minimum (candidate and at most two agents). The other visitors or clients will wait outside until the time when the Registration Officer is ready to serve them. E-mail and other modes of communication will be highly  encouraged. Maintain social distancing The size of classes during the training will be reviewed downwards to a maximum of 20 meters. Equally open space will be used where it is more suitable. Preventing physical contact and minimizing sharing of general items. Electorate are encouraged to bring and use their own items such pens or writing materials where applicable to reduce chances of sharing. The conduct of elections has the potential of engendering transmission of the coronavirus to a large number of people in the electoral cycle activities. "The proposed protocols contained hereunder are not conclusive. Nonetheless they guide the development of more robust and specific guidelines as the pandemic unfolds," Chebukati said.