 The government's Kazi Mtaani programme has won acclaim from Volunteer Involving Organisations for its contribution to bettering the lives of  youths during the Covid-19 pandemic. The initiative falls under the State Department for Housing and Urban Development, which last Friday was feted by VIOS during the Covid-19 Volunteers Response Recognition Awards. The ceremony was in recognition of exemplary services to Kenyans in the coronavirus pandemic response through the implementation of the National Hygiene programme popularly known as Kazi Mtaani. Kazi Mtaani was initiated in April as a social protection stimulus package to the economically hard-hit by the adverse effects of Covid-19 in the informal settlements. Most of the beneficiaries lost their means of livelihood soon after Covid-19 pandemic was declared in March. Last week, the World Bank also commended Kazi Mtaani for reducing crime and drug abuse in the informal settlements. During the awards presentation, Housing Principal Secretary Charles Hinga said: “Kazi Mtaani has been a game changer for so many families across the country particularly at a time when the economy has contracted due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic”. His statement was read by the ministry’s director of communication John Kaplich. The ministry and other state agencies have been spearheading the implementation of Kazi Mtaani across the country. In the first phase, some of the activities the youths are engaged in were street and drainage cleaning, garbage collection, bush clearance, fumigation and disinfection. The activities are ongoing. In the second phase, the youths are involved in road construction using cabro blocks and production of interlocking stabilised blocks, among others. “We expect that many more lives will be impacted positively in next six months and beyond. We are already training the workers in road construction, and house making using interlocking stabilised soil blocks technology to take up new opportunities under community contracting to ensure sustainability of the programme beyond the six months,” Hinga said. “Other activities under phase two include face-lifting various public institutions such as schools and government facilities through repainting activities.”  - mwaniki fm    