Deputy President William Ruto is today and tomorrow expected to pitch camp in Mt Kenya East where he will attend church services as he seels his Hustler narrative. On Saturday morning, the DP will land in Meru county to attend an ongoing church conference in Maua and later in the day preside over the opening of Tiira Day Secondary School. Ruto who is expected to land in the county this morning will be hosted by Igembe South lawmaker John Paul Mwirigi. “I wish to invite you all for a prayer breakfast which is taking place in Maua Stadium organised by the Maua Pastors Fellowship from today up to Sunday. His Excellency the Deputy President Dr. William Samoei Ruto will be in attendance tomorrow morning at exactly 9:00 am," read message sent by Mwirigi inviting the local leaders. "Later, His Excellency will attend the opening of Tiira Day Secondary School in Akachiu ward Igembe South Constituency. I invite you all for both occasions; come we share the word of God and participate in developing Igembe South.” On Sunday Ruto will visit the neigbouring county of Embu where he will conduct three church fundraisers and also address the people during his county tour. In the morning, the DP will attend a mass cum harambee at St. Mary’s Makutano Catholic Church, then proceed for another harambee at Kiritiri F.G.C.K where he will attend his second service. The hustler train will then move to Tatol Grace Fellowship International Muthatari for the third fundraiser. From there the Deputy President team will make a stopover at Embu Town where he will address the people at Outside Jatomy and Cylet. In recent months, Ruto has fired up his 2022 presidential campaigns, crisscrossing the country with the hustler movement narrative that he hopes will endear majority poor to back his bid to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. On Thursday the DP was in Nyamira county where he held a series of events. He said the initial meeting had been canceled following orders from a section of leaders who are against his hustle movement. "These policemen have no problem. The problem is the people who live in the ivory tower who don’t know the problem that some people are going through," Ruto said. He said he will not be moved in his objective targeting people in the bodaboda sector as well as other small businesses. "Those who are trying to stop my tour to Kisii are 'fools'. Such people are tribalists. Every Kenyan is allowed to visit any place as long as he is within the country." He has asked leaders to avoid politics of tribalism as ethnicity. "Stop politics of balkanising Kenyans...no Kenyan is a visitor or a guest in any part of Kenya." The DP said the discussion in the country should focus on the common people before shifting to the politics of sharing positions. Ruto said that Jubilee administration formed the government with the idea of uniting the entire country, including giving government positions to some of Kisii and Nyamira residents.