Efforts in managing the maize lethal necrosis disease have contributed to reducing seed production losses, an expert has said. Samuel Angwenyi, the MLN project coordinator at African Agricultural Technology Foundation, said the efforts have saved 17 per cent of seed initially lost to the disease. The disease caused maize deficit in Kenya, Rwanda, Ethiopia, Tanzania and Uganda. He made the remarks at a side-event during the virtual dialogue on Innovation and Emerging Technologies. The disease was first reported in Bomet county in 2011 in Bomet before spreading to other maize-growing regions. According to CIMMYT, the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Centre, the disease caused estimated losses of up to 23 per cent of the average annual production valued at Sh22.3 billion. Western was the hardest hit. Angwenyi added that the disease has been effectively controlled in some developed countries through strategies that combine tolerant varieties, crop rotation, and introduction of maize free seasons to reduce the insect vector pressure that transmits it. “However, in Eastern Africa, the epidemic is aggravated by little access to maize lethal necrosis disease (MLN) tolerant maize varieties by farmers and year-round cultivation of maize, allowing transmission via insect vectors, among others,” Angwenyi said. He said different approaches are being deployed simultaneously to combat the disease in the region. “The approaches include agronomic interventions to manage the disease through use of standard operating procedures, use of rapid MLN diagnostic kits and production of MLN- free seeds,” he said. CIMMYT says MLN disease is under control but not eradicated. “Due to the rapid detection of MLN and the response of the countries involved, it has been reported that the disease is under control but not eradicated. We have managed to contain the spread within the region but continue to monitor its movements,” director of CIMMYT’s Global Maize Programme Dr Prasanna said. Angwenyi added that production of MLN tolerant varieties have also been deployed to combat the disease in the region. “To implement MLN management approaches effectively, country specific MLN management checklists were developed by over 160 seed industry players including seed companies, breeders, and regulators,” he said. He reported that farmers using MLN tolerant varieties are recording additional yield of over five tonnes per hectare in addition to increased grain production estimated at about $1,600 per hectare.