Turkana Governor Josephat Nanok has said nothing will stop him from supporting Deputy President William Ruto. Nanok, who was elected on the ODM ticket said that his decision had been cemented by the fact that it was time the country’s leadership focused on the problems of ordinary Kenyans. “We are going to work with the Deputy President because it is under him that the poor and small businesses would be empowered,” he said. The governor added that “The wheelbarrow moment is unbeatable. This is the route we are going to follow if we are to change the economic status of Kenyans.” Nanok made his remarks on Saturday in Nakuru, Bahati where Ruto was meeting with grassroots leaders from the Turkana community. He said that he is choosing a new political path that is heavy on development that would help check poverty, negative ethnicity, and political hypocrisy in Kenya. Nanok added that the intensified conversation on mama mboga, bodaboda, and other small businesses was testimony the country had been on a wrong path to poverty eradication. Leaders present included Senators Malachy Ekal (Turkana), Susan Kihika (Nakuru), MPs Christopher Nakuleu (Turkana North), John Lodepe (Turkana Central), Joyce Emanikor (Woman Rep, Turkana), Jayne Kihara (Naivasha), Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), Lizah Chelule (Woman Rep, Nakuru), Samuel Gachobe (Subukia), Gideon Keter (nominated) and Kimani Ngunjiri (Bahati). Governor’s sentiments were supported by Lodepe, Emanikor, and Prof Ekal who observed that the new discussion away from the who-is-who in Kenya would bring equity and equal participation in the decision-making. Ruto noted that a discussion about the poor and the ordinary would put Kenya on a lane to transformation. “The journey may be arduous and difficult. But this is the time for us to talk about the poor. It must go on,” Ruto said. Kuria warned Jubilee Party secretary general Raphael Tuju to prepare for an epic battle, adding that they would not allow an ‘ODM mole to bring down Jubilee.’ “It would not be easy. We would fight for our party,” said Kuria.