DP William Ruto allies have condemned the government for intimidating the hustler movement team. Speaking in an event presided over by Ruto in Nyamira, Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua, condemned the interior CS Fred Matiang'i for teargassing Ruto supporters saying he has not helped the community. "How many people has your person helped to get in government, KWS, Prisons even empowerment, and yet he calls himself a leader. Power is temporary, use it in assisting the poor," he said on Thursday. His allies have now demanded the government to apologize for the families who lost their beloved ones in Murang'a chaos and compensate them. Ruto was with Kisii County DG Joash Maangi, Kitutu Masaba MP Shadrack Mose, Vincent Kemosi of West Mugirango, Joash Nyamoko (North Mugirango) Silvanus Osoro (South Mugirango) Businessman Don Bosco Gichana Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira)and a number of MCA's from Kisii and Nyamira Counties. Others were nominated senator Milicent Omanga, Kiharu MP Dindi Nyoro. The leaders said their support to the Deputy President is unshaken and they will not be bowed by threats from the government. "As members of parliament and hustlers in the country we will fight in all all manners to ensure you are President," said Mose. North Mugirango MP Joash Nyamoko said the DP will continue supporting hustlers in the country. Nyoro said the DP followers got dismissed from the house committees leadership because they are following the DP. "We have been suspended because we are following the DP. But that will not make us move back," he said. He dared the interior CS to arrest him now that he is in the Gusii region. "We know some selfish men in government who planned to teargas bodaboda riders and church members, I dare you to come and arrest us," said Nyoro. "We are not afraid of teargas even if you lob it to us daily we will not move an inch," he noted. "We had planned to hold this meeting last week but whatever happened was part of the scheme to stop our move but we thank God you are here.Our state house bid is unstoppable," Nyamoko said. South Mugirango Mp Silvanus Osoro accused a section of leaders who say the MPs are following the DP because of resources. "We do not follow the DP because of money, if you want to get to the market, come and sell your 'tomatoes' if they can be accepted then it is ok," he said. Osoro also condemned the interior CS Fred Matiang'i for using police to teargas DP supporters. "We need protection not to be teargassed. We are aware some of you have stolen Covid 19 funds and you are here chasing us around because we want to lobby for resources to help our fellow hustlers.Shame on you," Osoro said. He also condemned the BBI initiative who he said the process is to benefit a few individuals who are in the government. Kisii County Deputy governor Joash Maangi said the journey of the hustler is unstoppable, and Kisii people are hardworking and told off the people in government who are against the DP to give the hustler nation a break. "We are fully behind the DP and we shall not allow anyone to halt the hustlers movement.