The Kenya Yearbook Editorial Board (KYEB) on Thursday released a revamped edition of its flagship publication, the Kenya Yearbook 2020. Coming 10 years after the first Yearbook was published, this year’s edition is themed “Social Cohesion and Rebuilding the Economy” in light of the Government’s focus on uniting Kenyans and reversing the negative impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the economy. And for the first time, a pocket-sized factbook, Kenya Facts & Figures, carrying useful data and information, will be distributed alongside this year’s Yearbook and subsequent editions. The two publications were launched online and on social media as KYEB embraces digital publishing and dissemination in line with its strategic plan. Informative and easy to read, the Kenya Yearbook 2020 documents key social and economic achievements by the Government in FY2019/2020 tied to the Medium-Term Plan and the Big 4 Agenda of Kenya Vision 2030. It is anchored by data and additional gems of useful information in Kenya Facts and Figures. All the chapters are clustered under four key pillars: Our Country Our People; Economic and Social Inclusion; Defence and National Security; and Judiciary: Justice as our Shield & Defender. The book can be accessed in the KYEB website: www.kenyayearbook.co.ke. In designing this edition of the Kenya Yearbook, special attention was given to making it attractive to the youth with introduction of more colour, fact boxes, useful quotes and informative sidebar stories keeping a digital audience in mind, among other stylistic changes. KYEB CEO Edward Mwasi while commenting on the launch of Kenya Yearbook 2020 said, “It is our hope that this edition will provoke conversations that inspire the citizens to fully embrace their part in national development. The message in Kenya Yearbook 2020 is that as Kenyans, we have come from far and are now better prepared to move forward with hope." “This and other publications are products of our partnerships with Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), Independent Commissions and the Media, helping us produce two key sector-specific publications in the past month, namely Towards Food Security and The Road to Universal Health Coverage (UHC),” he added. Towards Food Security highlights the impact of simple innovations and technologies making farming a viable business for unemployed youth, while The Road to Universal Health tracks progress in Kenya’s bid to meet UN goals on affordable healthcare for all. These are in addition to the biographical series The Moi Cabinets Volume I and II. 