Two men charged with making Covid-19-free certificates and impersonating Kemri officials have been freed on Sh500,000 bond each. They were charged on Tuesday with impersonating Kenya Medical Research Institute officials and making the certificates without authority. Oscar Khadir Otieno and Clement Churchill Odhiambo were presented before Makadara senior principal magistrate Angelo Kithinji. The court heard that between June 23 and September 18, and with intent to defraud, they falsely presented themselves to be Kemri officials authorised to test  Covid-19 among members of the public. The two were also charged with conspiracy to commit a felony. The court heard that they, jointly with others, conspired to defraud members of the public by carrying out Covid-19 tests and issuing results to whosoever would pay Sh3,000. They faced other counts of making and uttering false documents after they issued a Covid-19 certificate to police constables Kelvin Mutiso, Elias Maingi, Samwel Kanyoro, Grace Wanjiru and Joseph Mwangi. According to a police report, they were arrested by officers from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations in Makadara after members of the public raised the alarm about suspicious persons conducting tests illegally in Industrial Area, Nairobi. It was then that Mutiso and Maingi, both of DCI Makadara, posed as members of the public who needed to be tested. A test was conducted after they each paid Sh3.000 and after 48 hours they were issued with certificates. After their arrest, the two led officers to their chemist in Kariobangi South where test kits, collected samples, filled personal data forms with a Kemri letterhead, result certificates and a laptop were recovered. Details from the laptop revealed that more than 2,000 members of the public had been issued with Covid-free certificates. Most of them were travellers going out of the country and businesspeople who urgently needed the document to reopen their outlets. The police also found Otieno and Odhiambo were not registered clinical officers with the Kenya Clinical Officers Association as they had claimed. The police suspect they have been collaborating with a Kemri headquarters insider who has been helping them to access the systems. They pleaded not guilty to all the 14 counts. The hearing begins on April 16. 