Why were some delegates who attended the launch of the Building Bridges Initiative report swindled out of their transport allowance? This is the question some delegates are asking. It's alleged that on Sunday at about 4 pm, just hours before the Monday launch, one political party sent its delegates an SMS to pick their invitation cards and transport reimbursement. Those who managed to do so the same day were lucky. They were handed the cards and Sh5,000. However, those who hoped to pick theirs in the morning were in for a rude shock. Party officials reportedly 'disappeared' with the cash said to have been provided by the state. It's not clear how some delegates made it back to their rural homes. Is NMS director-general Mohammed Badi aware of his officer whose 'high-handedness' threatens to jeopardise collection of garbage on city estates? Well, a group of contractors has threatened to down their tools, accusing the officer of being bossy and refusing to lend them an ear. The man, they said, has refused to facilitate a meeting between them and Badi to iron out teething challenges, including nonpayment for seven months now. The collectors claim they have endured frustrations. They want Badi to directly engage them to sort out their issues and avert a looming crisis that could leave the capital in filth. Failing that, they will petition President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene. Senior officials of a commercial bank are about to be arrested. This is after two wives of a former MP from Central Kenya told land fraud detectives that their signatures were forged and their passport photos used to effect a land transaction. The land in question is in Nairobi’s Parklands area. The bank claimed to have sold it to recover a loan. The loan was repaid but the bank officials still went ahead to process the transfer. Those in the know say the officials have been avoiding their homes lately because detectives are trailing them. They may be seized at any time. The officials are reportedly not having phones now. They sleep in different hotels across the city to evade the detectives. A director of an international organisation with a branch in Nairobi is on the spot. Reason? The local staff of the organisation have accused her of targeting them in an ongoing rationalisation and allegedly scrapping some senior positions on the grounds that the organisation no longer budgets for the positions. The employees have told Corridors of Power, however, that hardly a month had passed after the announcement when she brought in foreigners who are now occupying the same positions. The locals are appealing to labour inspectors to carry out an audit of the organisation.