Two North Rift counties plan to support crop farming along their common border as part of efforts to end cattle rustling and conflicts. West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo and his Elgeyo Marakwet counterpart Ales Tolgos said meaningful agricultural activities will help end the outdated cultural practice by economically empowering the youth. Some of the proposed crops are coffee and macadamia. Speaking during a peace meeting at the border, Lonyangapuo said his administration will distribute coffee seedlings to farmers. “We don’t want our community members to shame elected leaders. My government is going to distribute free coffee seedlings to residents,” he said. The area has favourable climatic conditions. Lonyangapuo urged residents to set aside at least half an acre of their parcels for farming. He said agriculture will help engage idle youth so they can ignore social vices. “We need to direct our energies to farming and education. Cattle rustling won’t help us in developing this region, especially during this era of devolution,” he said, adding that he has a clear development roadmap for the region. “My government has set aside funds for bursaries, improving roads and for agricultural activities. Nobody should have a reason to engage in cattle rustling." Lonyangapuo also appealed to residents to surrender illegal guns to the national government. Tolgos said lack of income-generating projects has condemned the youth to cattle rustling. “Youths are selling healthy animals at a throwaway price. Some are even selling a healthy animal at Sh5,000. This is a big loss,” he said. The counties will partner with the Ministry of Agriculture to set up a coffee processing plant so that farmers are not exploited. They will also introduce macadamia farming. "We want to ensure youths are fully engaged so these conflicts can come to an end,” Tolgos said. The leaders urged residents to help identify criminals behind the reemergence of conflicts in the region. They said the region had been peaceful after the two communities signed a peace pact and will not accept a few individuals to breach the peace.