Medical students at the University of Nairobi may not graduate in December if lecturers go ahead with a threatened strike. The University Academic Staff Union issued a seven-day strike notice on Thursday. While addressing reporters at Kenyatta National Hospital, Uasu secretary general Constantine Wasonga said clinical allowances had been withdrawn and only a few members had been paid their dues. The union accuses the UoN vice chancellor Stephen Kiama of stopping lecturers’ clinical allowances based on a list submitted to him by the Kenyatta National Hospital CEO. Wasonga said although some members had received their allowances, it was unjust to pay selectively. “Some of the academic staff have received reduced allowances while others have been given the whole amount but are not guaranteed of being paid in future,” Wasonga said. He added it was worrying to see that the list contained the names of retired doctors and those already dead. Wesonga said it was unfortunate that students who were in their final year were at risk of not graduating in December as scheduled. Wasonga said if their allowances are not paid there will be no clinical teaching and examinations. While trying to calm agitated students who were picketing along corridors at KNH, the principal School of Health Sciences James Machoki said he was making arrangements with the college academic board on how to manage the situation. “There is no need to go causing chaos in the corridors. I have arranged for a meeting with the college board and I hope it will yield,” Machoki said. He told the students to remain calm and that they will sit for their exams and graduate in December. The students union secretary general Haggai Emase said it was barely a month since they embarked on learning after the long break due to Covd-19. “We reported back to school in the second week of September, hoping that we would finish the remaining course work. But things seem not to be working according to our expectations,” Emase said. Edited by Henry Makori