A Mombasa businessman has come to the rescue of three Technical University Mombasa students who almost missed a chance to participate in the AfricaOnAir Top Story finals. Cece Siago, Warris Kimathi and Samuel Namkana, all final year journalism students at TUM, beat 31 other teams from different universities in the country to make it to the final four in the show that airs on two local TV stations. The finalists are competing for a chance to win a trip to Al-Jazeera studios in Doha, Qatar. The university was unable to sponsor the three to West Pokot county, where they are supposed to do a documentary feature of  female genital mutilation as part of their final test, because of lack of funds. The three finalists were about to throw in the towel on Thursday, with the final training on Friday in Nairobi before travelling to West Pokot county. However, businessman Suleiman Shahbal, who mentors youth in Mombasa, came to their aid by sponsoring their trip and paying for accommodation for the 10 days they will be in West Pokot. “They deserve our support,” Shahbal told the Star when contacted. TUM corporate communication manager Jaytee Kivihya said they reached out to Shahbal after almost losing hope. “We were almost losing hope. We were devastated. We have come this far, from 35 universities from across the country to the final four, and facing the possibility of not being able to do the final test,”  Kivihya said. “Fortunately, we reached out to Shahbal, being a mentor of the youth, and he responded positively. As we speak, we are in Nairobi for the final training before we proceed to West Pokot.” The TUM students are competing with teams from three other universities - Multimedia University, Tangaza University College and Moi University. The other three competitors are also working on the FGM theme but in Garissa, Samburu and Migori counties. Finalist Siago said the shoot in West Pokot will take 10 days. “We have to get to the ground, do the groundwork and look for victims,” she said. They also have to establish contacts before developing a rapport with them. Kivihya said, “This is because FGM is a subject that is talked about in low tones in the county because the government has banned it. So, people will not be willing to share their stories with strangers.” Siago said the terrain in West Pokot county is not smooth and they will need to hire vehicles for the 10 days they will be spending there. “The language barrier will also mean we have to look for an interpreter,” Saigo said. During the final test, the judges and the audience will vote to get a winner. “Seventy per cent will be the judges and 30 per cent will be voting by the community. That is why we are calling on Coast residents to support us. We are putting Mombasa and the Coast on the map,” she said. Kivihya said they are still looking for other sponsors.  