Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen has claimed that BBI process has been managed like a private property despite being a public matter. This comes amidst rumours that the report will soon be reviewed by the Cabinet this weekend before its launch. "So the Cabinet will discuss BBI final report tomorrow and be launched in State House on Saturday?" he posed. "I can’t remember any other process that involves the people of Kenya that has been managed like private property even more than official secrets. Now let the campaigns begin." Via a post on Twitter on Thursday, Murkomen said he can authoritatively state that there not more than five people who know what is in the BBI report. "Even Raila & Yusuf Haji don’t know the contents just like they didn’t know what was in the first report that was launched in Bomas. All are waiting Saturday’s launch," he said. There were reports that the president will meet the leadership of both Houses of Parliament on Saturday. The meeting is said to be about the anticipated Building Bridges Initiative report. There is growing unease in the political circles in the face of President Uhuru Kenyatta keeping the country guessing about the fate of the BBI report. Almost three months after the Building Bridges Initiative task force completed compiling the final report, Uhuru is yet to find time in his diary to receive it. This has sparked suspicion, especially among ODM leader Raila Odinga's allies, that the President may have run out of steam to support the report expected to reconfigure the structure of government. Raila's wing reportedly supports the introduction of an executive prime minister and two deputies while Uhuru's camp are wary a referendum would be needed for those changes. The President, according to sources, is concerned that a referendum at a time many Kenyans have lost jobs, thousands of enterprises closed down and an economy battered by the effects of Covid-19 pandemic, would be "insensitive.” On June 30, the 14 members BBI Steering Committee said it had concluded its work and was waiting to present the report to the President. The term of the team led by Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji expired on June 30, 2020.