A lobby group wants the Msambweni by-election set for December 15 put off indefinitely because of the rising cases of Covid-19. Haki Africa on Monday wrote to IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati saying political activities are to blame for the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The second wave has been greatly exacerbated by irresponsible political activities within Msambweni, Coast and the country at large,” Haki Africa executive director Hussein Khalid said. The Msambweni by-election, seen as a political battle between Deputy President William Ruto and ODM chief Raila Odinga, has seen political bigwigs jet to the Coast to drum up support for their candidates. At least 15 MPs, senators and a governor accompanied ODM candidate Omar Boga to the IEBC offices for clearance before holding a rally at Sawasawa grounds where thousands of supporters, the majority without face masks, turned up. During independent candidate Feisal Bader’s clearance, at least 10 MPs and other politicians accompanied him before also holding a rally at the same ground. During Wiper candidate Sheikh Mahmoud Abdulrahman’s clearance there were at least seven five MPs accompanied him but did not hold any rally afterwards. Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka had earlier toured the region to drum up support for his candidate. He was accompanied by at least 12 MPs, senators and MCAs from Eastern region and held a rally at Sawasawa grounds. On Monday, Khalid hit out at police for allowing politicians to flout Covid-19 rules but harassing other groups that want to hold gatherings. “Politicians hold rallies where more than the allowed 200 people gather, do not wear masks and do not observe social distancing. “However, when rights activists want to hold demonstrations with less than 100 people we are teargased with the police saying the gathering is not allowed,” said Khalid. He called for the arrest of senior politicians in the country who lead rallies across the country with complete disregard for the Covid-19 rules. “Arrest leaders like Raila Odinga and William Ruto because they are the ones leading huge rallies across the country,” Khalid said. He said the health of Kenyans should be prioritised instead of political activities. He said Haki Africa cannot allow politicians to endanger the lives of Kenyans for their political ambitions. “The blood of those who will die because of Covid-19 henceforth will fall squarely on politicians who will not be abiding by the Covid-19 rules and regulations,” he said. The lobby group said it will head to court to stop the by-elections should the IEBC fail to heed their call. He said their focus is on Msambweni because it is in the centre of political interest in the country at the moment, which can be explained by the number of political bigwigs who have already toured the area. The by-election was precipitated by the death of MP Suleiman Dori on March 9 after a short illness. Edited by Henry Makori