Residents of Kagurumo village in Kigumo constituency on Wednesday held demos to show their displeasure with the poor state of roads. They planted bananas on Kagurumo-Kibebe-ini road to illustrate how bad the situation is — it is more of a farm than a road. They directed their anger at politicians, whom they accused of using the road problem during election campaigns, only to ignore it once they are elected. As the protests went on, area MP Wangari Mwaniki's office said the 5.5km road will soon be upgraded. Sources from the office told the Star that tendering is almost complete at the Kenya Rural Roads Authority. The residents said the road, which connects several villages such as Irigiro, Kabebe-ini and PCEA Church areas, is impassable during rainy seasons. Recently, a boda boda rider died after slipping on the road and falling off. “If the local leadership will not upgrade this road, we've decided to do it ourselves,” Julius Ndangiri, a resident, said. Ndangiri, however, warned that they will not vote in the 2022 general election should their pleas be put on the back burner. He said that last season, a well-wisher gave 11 lorries of murram to repair the worst section of the road. “We are asking well-wishers not to tire of helping because we all live in this village and use this road. We ask them to work with us so we can make our area better,” he added. Henry Muiruri, a boda boda operator, said the road is full of small trenches that make it unmotorable. Even pedestrians have difficulty using it. He said the majority of his customers ply that route and that by the end of the day, he is so worn out that he is unable to spend quality time with his family, a situation he said results in marital problems. It has become a norm for operators to fall as they ferry passengers, he noted, and they are mostly compelled to cater for out-of-pocket medical expenses. Mary Wanjiru hawks porridge to passersby and boda boda operators along the road. She recently fell and spilt a jerrycan of porridge. She suffered losses as she had to go back home to prepare more porridge. She said the road is so slippery that people are forced to wear gumboots to get to the Kenol-Murang’a road. “We pay taxes and are demanding better roads so that we can conduct our businesses and farming activities with ease. Right now, women find it very hard to get their bananas to the market,” Wanjiru said.