Fifty per cent of people with tuberculosis have reported having trouble finding transport to hospital during the Covid-19 pandemic, a report shows. Most of them said they were ashamed of taking public transport because of the similarity between some symptoms of TB and Covid-19. The report titled 'The impact of Covid-19 on the TB Epidemic: A Community Perspective' was conducted by 10 global networks, including the Kenya AIDS NGOs Consortium. The research found that more than 50 per cent of people with TB in Kenya reported fear of contacting Covid-19 at a health facility. Seventy per cent reported did not get enough support during the pandemic. Fifty per cent said they received additional medicine for treatment at home. “People with TB also reported experiencing increased stigma due to the similar symptoms of both respiratory diseases,” the report states. “While most people with TB were given additional medicines to continue treatment at home, they expressed a clear and urgent need for immediate non-medical support, including nutritional, economic and psychosocial support.” The research was conducted between May 26 and July 2. It targeted people with TB, frontline healthcare workers, programme and policy officers, researchers and advocates of TB care. Responses were collected from 237 people with TB in 16 countries with 159 responses included from Kenya. TB is the world's leading infectious disease, killing around 1.5 million people each year. Cost-effective medicines to treat and cure TB are still unavailable despite global and national efforts to end it. KANCO executive director Allan Ragi said Covid-19 is driving people affected by TB into a downward spiral of poverty, fear and anguish. “The advent of Covid-19 is a wake-up call to the state of our health systems and the investments that we must make to not only end TB but to also realise universal health coverage,” Ragi said. He added: “We, therefore, must rethink health in the context of the pandemic and beyond, by being deliberate on getting the right data to inform decisions and resource allocation while ensuring the best value for resources.” Ragi urged governments to deliver integrated and people-centred health services. Citizens should also arise and hold governments accountable for the realisation of national and global health commitments, he said. Many participants, particularly in Kenya, said they were struggling to feed their families and to afford transport to access needed care. Fifty-six per cent of the people with TB surveyed in Kenya received care in public hospitals, followed by public clinics at 28 per cent and private hospitals at 13 per cent. Only five participants (three per cent) obtained TB care in private clinics while only one (0.6 per cent) sought care in an NGO or charity clinic. According to the Health ministry, Kenya reported and treated 84,504 patients in 2019, out of whom 8,391 (9.7 per cent) were children. TB is the fifth leading cause of death in Kenya. The country is among the world’s 30 nations with a high burden of the disease. The ministry has been concerned that the number of drug-resistant TB cases has increased over the years. By 2019, there were 688 people with multidrug-resistant TB.