Mandera Governor Ali Roba on Tuesday called for an end to stigma and discrimination against persons living with disabilities. Roba said the society needs to change on how it views and treats disabled people. He spoke at the county headquarters during the launch of a multi-sectoral programme to support and improve the vulnerable, who include people living with disabilities, youth, women and other vulnerable groups. “We still have a lot of stigma and discrimination against persons with disabilities. We need to embrace them and offer them opportunities to improve their  livelihoods as we seek to create an enabling environment with equal opportunities," he said. He added: “To this end, I humbly request families with children with disabilities to bring them forward for registration in schools and as we mobilise support from county government and well-wishers. No parent should hide any child at home or deny them a chance to access education.” Roba said through the Ministry of Youth, his administration is implementing projects that are aimed at uplifting  the vulnerable groups to be productive. Some of the programmes include distribution of mobility kits among them 31 motorised and manual wheelchairs, and 45 adjustable elbow crutches. Others are empowering PLWD with income-generating equipment including 32 chest freezers, 52 sewing machines to supporting them to be economically active. For the youth, Roba said they  have provided 10 motorcycles, three automatic egg incubators, four car wash machines, two desktop computers and two laser jet printers to support access to information and online opportunities. For vulnerable women, the county has provided income generating equipment that include five medium three level ovens, juice blenders, 56 assorted salon equipment as well as metallic milk cans to support storage and transportation of milk. He directed the Ministry Roads and Public Works to ensure that all public buildings, offices, markets and ECDEs have ramps and facilities for easy access as part of the county’s  approach in setting standards, regulating and providing services to persons with disabilities.