A section of ODM members was left stranded on Thursday after their names were found missing from the voter registration list during the party's Msambweni nomination exercise. It is reported that the presiding officers are using the 2017 ODM list and not the updated one. According to Zipora Nyawere, a voter at Jogoo Grounds in Mwamambi polling station, some of the people who voted last time were turned back as they were said not to be members of that particular area. She said they don't understand why their names are missing claiming that in 2017 they voted at the same place. "My ID and voters card indicates that I belong to this station. How is it possible that some of our names are not here?" posed Nyawere. Another voter Mohamed Mwalonya wants the ODM party to use the official IEBC list. The locals want the party to use the old voting tradition of lining up. In some of the areas, the start of the exercise experienced delays. The voting process was supposed to start by 6:00 am in all the 60 polling stations. It is said some of the voting materials were presented late with voting in some parts starting as late as 10 am. In other areas, some voters’ names were already marked yet they had not yet voted. Zainab Choka said several members and her name had been ticked. She complained there are plans to deny them their constitutional rights. "There is no transparency at all. I have observed something fishy is going on, " said Choka. The Ukunda showground Mwaroni, Mabokoni, Mwabungo and several other centres were among those affected. ODM organizing Secretary Shaban Luchesi said a big number of ODM members gave up and went home. Luchesi said the turnout was good but he fears that the results won't be as expected. He said the inconveniences will highly interfere with the voters' numbers. "We had prepared well but, many people are getting tired since names can't be found...definitely the numbers will not be good, " he said. Luchesi said the turnout was great but he fears that the results won't be as expected if the problem persists. Nichols Zani and Omar Boga are contesting for the ODM ticket to vie for the Msambweni parliamentary seat. This after the death of area MP Suleiman Dori in March. Boga also admitted that the voting exercise has been confronted by some challenges asking the respective authorities to consider their plight. His opponent Zani, however, urged the locals to be patient during the exercise. Msambweni constituency has over 68,000 registered voters.