Deputy President William Ruto has stepped up his quest to retain Mt Kenya region as his stronghold ahead of the 2022 presidential race. The Star has learnt that the DP has planned a series of meetings in the vote-rich region that will see him visit four counties beginning tomorrow through to Sunday. Coming four days after the launch of Building Bridges Initiative at the Bomas of Kenya where President Uhuru Kenyatta appeared to soften his attacks on DP, it is understood that Ruto and his troops will also tone down. During the BBI launch where the President admitted that he has been part and parcel of bad politics, he appealed to Ruto to stop early 2022 campaigns. Governors are planning to unveil their caucus to drum up support for the Building Bridges Initiative report to boost the push to amend the Constitution. The county chiefs, who have been excited with radical proposals within the report to allocate more funds to the devolved units, will play a lead role in popularising the BBI report. They will partners with members of the county assemblies, big winners in the BBI proposals as well, to market the document at the grassroots. The Star has established that the county chiefs will form a team that will come up with strategies on how they can effectively campaign BBI head of the anticipated referendum. On Friday, the governors are expected to hold a meeting that would culminate in the unveiling of a lean team that will be the governors' focal point on the BBI activities. The annulled 2017 Presidential elections yesterday returned to haunt Data Commissioner nominee Immaculate Kassait. Kassait who was until her nomination was the IEBC director of voter education was pressed by MPs on her suitability for the job given the baggage of 2017 polls where the commission refused to yield to Supreme Court’s demands to allow for access to data in the servers. Kassait had also served as the Director of Voter Registration and Electoral Operations at IEBC for nine years. Kassait on her part said she was not the one in charge of the data at the time and assured the security of the personal data of Kenyans and protect the same from any abuse if she is confirmed to the position. Ivory Coast striker and former Chelsea winger Salomon Kalou recently wowed football fans when he graduated with an undergraduate degree in Business Administration. His achievement was a timely reminder – especially in Africa – that it is possible to juggle between football and education with positive outcomes. Closer home in Kenya, footballers are increasingly sparing time out of their playing and training schedules to immerse themselves in books. A partnership between the Kenya Footballers' Welfare Association and Zetech University has thus far provided 16 footballers with scholarships to undertake courses of their choice. Wading through water rising up to their waists, boys living on the shores of Lake Turkana tried to salvage what was left of their family possessions. They struggled to snatch their household items from the raging water and move them by boat to higher grounds. Other families stood by in despair observing the aftermath of the destruction caused by the swelling lake. Lake Turkana is one of five Rift Valley lakes experiencing rising water levels due to the ongoing rains. The others are Nakuru, Naivasha, Baringo and Bogoria. Lake Turkana's water level has risen from 500m to 800m and flooded beaches, hotels, homes and government offices. Akalale Eiton, 56, said the rising water level is a threat to the lives of residents after their homes and other properties were destroyed.