Garissa Town MP Aden Duale has described the ruling party Jubilee as a ‘shell party’ following its current wrangles. The former Majority Leader in the National Assembly said that the party is no longer following its initial objectives. “It’s very unfortunate that today that party is a shell. Let me be very candid, it’s a shell. It doesn’t believe in its constitution, it doesn’t believe in its manifesto, it has not done elections since it was formed,” Duale said. The MP during an interview aired on Sunday on 'The hot seat' YouTube channel hosted by Jacque Maribe. Duale has said that Jubilee has not held about four Parliamentary Group Meetings chaired by the president. The MP said that the problems facing the party started between the party leader President Uhuru Kenyatta and his DP William Ruto. He added that it is unfortunate that the party has not lived to its expectation, adding that he was against the idea to merge the United Republican Party with The National Alliance to form Jubilee. “With the current status, I can tell you that I was convinced to, but to the dissolution of URP and the other parties is the action I regret today,” he said. He continued that the Jubilee government has performed exceedingly well in terms of connecting electricity to the locals, tarmacking roads, improving and investing in the security sector but has failed as a political party. “In our opinion when we were forming the Jubilee party, we were thinking of joining the ranks of African National Congress (ANC), Republican and the Democrat party in the US, the Labour Party in the UK among others,” He continued: “We have confirmed that in Kenya, parties are owned by individuals…but I don’t blame the president and the deputy.” The outspoken legislator has told the president that his legacy can start with uniting the political party which is now divided. In terms of the Jubilee government's performance, the MP has rated it at 60-70 per cent, even after failing to deliver on its major agenda in the manifesto including laptops for pupils and state of the art stadia. He also said the betrayal in political parties is not a new thing, making reference to the first government when the key players were betrayed. According to Duale, “Betrayal is the politics of deceit, a common denominator in the Kenyan politics witnessed since the independence.” Nevertheless, the MP is still puzzled that the relationship between the president and his deputy is in turmoil. “I never thought that their relationship will reach this stage and that affects the whole country.” He said what’s happening to the deputy president is betrayal, and has urged him to stay strong. “When the bureaucrats start to demean the office of the person of the Deputy President in public and in private, it’s not only not good for a cohesive Kenya.”