 President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto have been asked to set aside their differences and work in unity for the country. The call came from Garissa County Dialogue Conference, a grouping of religious leaders headed by the Rev David Matolo. The relationship between Uhuru and Ruto has hit rock bottom in the recent past with the National Security Advisory Council two weeks ago issuing security measures seen as aimed at slowing down DP’s political activities. Ruto’ allies have recently been on a warpath against the Uhuru administration, insisting they will no longer accept to be mistreated by a government they crafted. “We wish to remind the President and his Deputy that the people of Kenya elected them as a unit to serve them, contrary to the consistent political posturing and gesturing that has dominated the news,” the religious leaders said in a statement read by Matolo. They said the high political temperature was not conducive for  service delivery to Kenyans. "We call upon them, together with their Cabinet, to work in unity for Kenyans.” Sheikh Abdirahman Shakul called on the public to embrace harmony and tolerance for peaceful co-existence. The religious leaders commended local communities for remaining united despite attempts to divide them. The county has a myriad challenges associated with al Shabaab terrorist attacks that have led to an exodus of public workers, more so teachers. It has also been ravaged by floods and droughts that have killed hundreds of livestock, the economic mainstay of the area. “As leaders we don’t take the peace and tranquillity that we enjoy for granted. There has been less tension in the county with the region largely remaining peaceful even during contested presidential elections,” Sheikh Shakul said. Fr Nicholas Mutua challenged the county government to embrace a more open leadership through effective communication of its plans. It should also embrace a feedback mechanism for seamless interaction with the populace. “We challenge the county executive to set up an efficient  monitoring and evaluation department which audits all projects and their execution to allow for integrity to be the overall guiding principle in service delivery,” Mutua said. The group called on leaders to ensure that devolution worked and for the people of Garissa to feel that their delegated power was not misplaced.  - mwaniki fm