Law Society of Kenya CEO Mercy Wambua has said she will stay put despite efforts by president Nelson Havi to push her out. Wambua told the Star in an interview on Tuesday that she was prepared to weather the storm and serve the society as long as the majority of the council were on her side and had confidence in her. She said she was not bothered by any efforts to elbow her out saying she was “in office by operation of law till 2022”. “As you can see, I’m seated here [in her office] and I intend to be here until my contract expires in 2022 unless the majority of the council members think otherwise,” Wambua said. The CEO and Havi have been embroiled in a power tussle at the society. The LSK council had suspended Wambua over claims of gross misconduct but a majority nine council members quashed the push to remove her from office. Havi, however, alongside two council members voted to sack her. The president insists that his decision was final and that Wambua must vacate office. The nine council members say Havi does not have powers to sack the CEO single-handedly without the two-thirds support from the team. Wambua said the struggle at the lawyers' professional body started immediately Havi was elected president earlier in the year. She said working with Havi for the past six months has been “rough, torturous and difficult”. Havi, she said, has sought to overrun the council by overriding their decisions and carrying out his own in disregard to the collective position. Asked whether she would resign if working with Havi proved impossible, Wambua said she was "not a believer in quitting". "Why should I move? I understand the president believes he is not a man to lose. I’m also a woman not known to lose. So let’s see what happens.” She added, “You agree as a team but he passes out information and seeks to carry out things that were not part of the collective.” Wambua attributed the struggles at the LSK to a difference in approach and style of leadership. The CEO has served three past LSK presidents, including Erick Mutua, Isaac Okero and Allen Gichuhi. At the height of the tussle, Havi had ordered that the official email of the CEO be deleted and the social media credential changed. But Wambua said her communication channels were intact. She also said that Havi had brought carpenters to change her office door locks but did not succeed. "The president was here also for over two hours with the fundis. They had taken the measurements and even bought new locks but did not do the work. I told them that I'm the one in-charge and I have not allowed them to continue with the work," she said.  