Nairobi female ward representatives have pledged to bury their differences and work together. In a meeting at a Nairobi hotel, the ward reps on Thursday said the time has come for them to look beyond their party affiliations and support matters that affect them as women. They made the resolutions during an insightful #WomenMustLead policy dialogue organised by FEMNET. "We have resolved that there will be no more violence at the county assembly. Last time some of our colleagues almost died in the chaos that marred city hall but going forward we as women we are going to be agents of change," South B ward rep Waithera Chege said. She said as women, they are going to support all pro-women bills amid efforts to end discrimination against them. Waithera said for a long time women MCAs have been used by their male counterparts to advance agendas that in turn discriminate them. She said nominated ward reps have suffered the most. "They do not have any office or staff. They are branded slay queens and flower girls simply because they were not elected," she said. Waithera said out of the 85 wards in Nairobi County, only five women were elected, three under the Jubilee party, and two under ODM. "We are a total of 38 women ward reps and only five of us were elected. The rest are nominated and you can see the kind of discrimination we are talking about," she said. She said the ouster of former speaker Beatrice Elachi had left them with bitter lessons. "Though we had to sacrifice one of us for peace to prevail, we cannot allow that to happen in the future. We can only avoid that by using our current positions and influence to empower each other," she said. FEMNET  Executive Director Memory Kachambwa while pledging to support the MCAs challenged them to start early preparations for the 2022 contest. "As a start towards achieving our objectives, we must ensure that the current seats we have at the county are not occupied by our male counterparts. We must agree and come to the table and chat our path because no one will chat it for us," Kachambwa said. She said they will partner with the Caucas leaders and prepare a needs assessment checklist for those who are aspiring to contest in the 2022 election. Being elected feels nice and cannot be the same us being nominated. We must start preparing and remove those tags on us. This should not be about money but fairness," she said. Kachambwa said FEMNET will bring on board other partners and stakeholders to conduct more forums to empower the MCAs. Her sentiments were echoed by Kandara MP Alice Wahome who said the MCAs need more capacity building especially from women MPs in the Senate and the National Assembly. Wahome said it is unfortunate that the Nairobi County Assembly has been in constant wrangles due to different interests driven by various political parties. "As a result,  we as women we have been left fighting and tearing each other. Going forward we must fight to level the ground so that we can understand issues affecting women especially in seeking elective positions," Wahome said. "We can do away with power struggles, park these fights and work together. Let us not allow ourselves to be the punching bags. We are two years away to an election, let us rather chat on how we can empower ourselves financially to compete fairly with the men," she said. The legislator challenged the ward reps to get out of their comfort zones and engage with the electorate at the grassroots level. "Positions are not given for free you must go for them. Take advantage of the little resources you have and bond with the electorate in the informal setup. If you are a nominated member, you should not fold hands and expect to be renominated. Challenge yourself and go for the higher office," she said. Wahome said since 2022 will be a transition period where another person will take over the Presidency from Uhru Kenyatta, campaigns are going to be highly competitive and tough. The MCAs expressed their disappointment after top women leaders failed to honor an invite to attend the forum. Waithera said women leaders in Nairobi including Woman Rep Esther Passaris and nominated Senator Milicent Omanga had been invited but only Rachel Shebesh and Kwamboka sent their apologies as they are out of town.