AFC Leopards on Friday morning concluded a 10-day intensive training at the high altitude Lorna Kiplagat Sports Academy. The former KPL giants are also planning another 10-day training in Mumias before the league kicks off on November 20, said team manager Thomas Juma. “It was a rigorous 10-day training which will help us as we seek to win the Kenya Premier League next season. It was a good training environment away from the city,” said Juma. He added: “The pre-season training has helped the new players to bond with the rest of the team. The entire team enjoyed their stay in Iten. After around eight months, the training was necessary because the players have been away from training for long. We had the entire team except for some players who are recovering from injuries.” Juma said the team will continue with training in Nairobi ahead of their tour of Western Kenya where they will camp at Mumias Sports Complex. Juma noted that new coach Tomas Trucha took the players through their paces assisted by Anthony Kimani. Trucha 49, previously handled Botswana Premier League side Township Rollers took over from Rwandan Andre Cassa Mbungo who left in December 2019. He will be assisted by Kimani who handled the team since the departure of Mbungo who returned to Rwanda. Ingwe concluded their tour of North Rift with a 2-1 win over 2017 Chapa Dimba na Safaricom champions Kapenguria Heroes Kishaunet grounds in West Pokot County on Thursday with Robinson Kamura and new signing Harrison Mwendwa scoring for Leopards. Kepher Ndiema scored for Kapenguria Heroes which is coached by Elvis Mwanga. The match which was watched by area governor John Lonyangapuo and AFC Leopards chairman Dan Shikanda was rained off on Wednesday with the teams deadlocked at 0-0. In earlier matches, Ingwe defeated division three side GFC 3-1 with Bienvenue Shaka scoring a brace for Leopards with Austin Otieno scoring the other goal. Manuel Egbor pulled one back for GFE. In another game Ingwe won 1-0 against Kona Rangers in matches played at Lorna Kiplagat Sports Academy with Elvis Rupia scoring the lone goal. In their first pre-season game, Leopards suffered a shock 1-0 loss against National Super League side Shabana at Gusii Stadium in the Mashujaa Day cup final. At the same time, AFC Leopard’s youthful goalkeeper Maxwell Mulili, right back Omar Somobwana, and left back Lewis Bandi have been called up to the national under 20 team.