An image of the Deputy President on Star's Newspaper front page on October 22 is false. The image of the DP greeting a crowd has a headline that reads, "I will support BBI, Ruto says". The kicker of the headline indicates that Ruto, who has voiced his concerns on the BBI, had changed tact and declared support for it. The DP has been consistent with his views on the BBI report. The image was widely shared on WhatsApp platforms. The photo used in the fake headline is that of Ruto when he arrived for the burial of Eldoret MCA Peter Chomba. It was supported by a tweet from a parody account indicating that the DP had decided to support the BBI because it was favouring his hustler narrative. "The BBI report as released today takes into account education, the four-year grace period for Helbloans is good. Ward development fund will uplift hustlers. I offer my heavy support however let's maintain sobriety as we popularise it. I will be on the Reggae train. Mubarikiwe..." read the post. But the real front page of the paper on October 22 edition was completely different. The headline read, "Sweeteners in Uhuru, Raila BBI referendum deal". The editorial team further responded saying the page was among many others that are photoshopped by malicious characters. They posted a copy of the same with a stamp of fake news. The Star's fact-check further established that though the Deputy President had acknowledged the release of the report, he did not indicate whether he was supporting it or not. During the burial, Ruto instead said the conversation on the constitutional consensus must be devoid of the reggae bravado that has the potential to create "us" vs "them" situation while dividing Kenyans. Ruto said competition is healthy and all leaders must be an example of how Kenyans live together. "It has been announced the BBI is out,  let all leaders in the country have an all-inclusive debate and bring everyone on board. It should not be about how leaders will be benefited but how the economy will be uplifted.  In this journey, we should not look for ways that will divide but bring together and if we are genuine about the BBI, we must start with such discussion," he said. Ruto said while looking for inclusivity advocated for in the report, there must be mechanisms to look out for the millions who have been excluded because of economic status. This story was produced by The Star in partnership with Code for Africa’s iLAB data journalism programme, with support from Deutsche Welle Akademie.