Have you been to Nakuru's Hell's Gate National Park, or Lake Paradise in Marsabit, or to Hippo Point in Kisumu? If you haven't visited any or all of the places, Classic FM's Maina Kageni wants you to join him tour parts of Kenya. Next weekend Maina will be visiting Nanyuki in Laikipia county under the Tembea Tujenge Kenya initiative. If you join him, you'll get to visit breathtaking Kenyan tourist sites at affordable rates. You will also help boost the struggling tourism sector that is smarting from the devastating effects of the coronavirus pandemic. Advertising firm BT has rolled out the Tembea Tujenge Kenya initiative to tap the local tourism market and encourage citizens to enjoy the beauty the country has to offer. BT will lead the third phase of the drive on October 15 after a successful one held on October 2. Participants toured several sites in Kajiado county last week. The project targets at least two sites in each of the 47 counties as part of the efforts to revive the tourism sector. Maina, who is an ambassador for Tembea Tujenge Kenya, said the team plans to visit two different destinations each weekend. The team will give details on where to find affordable rates for accommodation, activities to enjoy and the route to take. Kenyans will get a glimpse of all the fun through all social media platforms. “The campaign is a long-term concept, that will run for the next three years and seeks to enhance the local tourism sector,” Maina said during the launch in Nairobi. He added, “Kenyans should take advantage of the many tourist sites in the country and promote the sector.” He said the initiative, which targets half of the country's tourist numbers, will create jobs. Data from the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics shows that about 1.7 million people have lost their source of income owing to the pandemic. Many of those jobs were in the hospitality industry. The tourism industry was one of the hardest-hit after Kenya and global countries shut their borders to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease. The initiative is supported by corporates such as Shell, Sarova Hotels and Isuzu East Africa among others.  (edited by o. owino)