If you are in your 30s, try to look at what your peers and former classmates are doing. It is easy in the era of social media; most of us talk about our work, promote our businesses or post #dreamjob photos on our social media pages. Now, imagine that person back in the former glory days of class, how was he/she? Did you ever imagine they could be where they are? Especially at university, we all majored in studies we thought would be the foundation of our careers. If you take a close look now, hardly anyone you know works in the same sector they studied for. I majored in journalism during my undergraduate years. I imagined myself on the forefront of breaking news on Television and newspapers countrywide. My first job was in marketing. However, ever since then, I find myself in an out-of-control motion as a rolling stone, doing what I can to survive. Lately, I wonder if I should just quit the industry and start something new altogether. I know I am not alone. Most of us spend our youth precariously picking out the right subjects that will be fundamental in our career choices. We spend our 20s slogging through different jobs just to make ends meet. By the time we reach our 30s, we are either tired of it all or we are resolved on the path we are on. For the latter, these people are lucky enough to have found their calling in life. They might have been tried and tested, but they remain true to their first passion. If you are the former, then know that you are not alone and career change in your 30s is quite common. Several factors drive one to think about a career change later in life. Job loss is among the major reasons why people reconsider their career choices. Others just feel lost doing work that does not ignite their passion. Some people seek to reignite their passion by developing their talents and hobbies into a full-time career. While others choose to change jobs for the financial security. Whatever the reason, people are often pushed by circumstances to change their career paths. I recently reconnected with an old friend on social media. She had studied international relations at university, worked in the financial sector for many years before being declared redundant. She eventually started her own online boutique that she operates through social media. With the current economic crisis in the world, most people have lost their jobs and have been forced to turn to other income-generating methods. Before undertaking this risky move, it is important to think about what you really want. Even though you are unhappy in your current situation, quitting it abruptly won’t give you the inner peace you are looking for. You must carefully consider weigh all the pros and cons of leaving your current job. The second thing to do is an in-depth research of your next choice. Is it worth the shift? Will it have financial advantages? Are you strong enough to face setbacks and losses? It is advisable to speak to someone who is in the field that you wish to move to, so you may learn from their experiences and advice? We must also be practical in our choices. To move to a new career, we ought to learn new skills. We might be required to take classes to enter your second career or even take a lower-paying job so that we can learn on site. I am in the first step of evaluating what I want. I am taking a deep dive into my life, figuring out what is useful in my life and getting rid of what I no longer need. I fear my career might be one of them, but c’est la vie!