ODM leader Raila Odinga has kicked off the Building Bridges Initiative campaigns, telling Kenyans it is a matter of days before the document is unveiled. Raila on Sunday addressed a number of rallies in Nairobi where he drummed up support for the document, which he noted is a permanent solution to most challenges facing Kenyans. He termed the initiative the third and final liberation for the country. A church fundraiser planned by Deputy President William Ruto’s allies in Kenol, Murang’a, took an ugly turn on Sunday with several left injured. Chaos erupted as pro-Tangatanga and pro-Kieleweke groups clashed near AIPCA. The DP’s allies, however said they would not stop supporting the ‘hustler’ and lashed out at people they described as ‘state operatives’ whom they accused of being behind the chaos. Ruto condemned the incident accusing insiders of being responsible. He said he will not relent focusing on development. Auditor General Nancy Gathungu has flagged irregularities likely to subject taxpayers to loss of billions of shillings at Kenya Pipeline Company if the courts accede to the demands of a Lebanese contractor. Zakhem International Construction Co Ltd wants to be paid Sh19 billion arising from the extension of its contract to build the Mombasa–Nairobi pipeline. Gathungu says in a report tabled in Parliament that the dispute, which is yet to be decided by the courts, may affect the carrying value of the pipeline. World marathon record holder Eliud Kipchoge has bemoaned an ear problem and leg cramp for his surprise loss in Sunday's London Marathon. Kipchoge, the favourite heading into the race, finished eighth  in 2:06.49 as Ethiopian Shura Kitata clinched his first ever marathon win. "I'm really disappointed. I had a problem with my right ear after it blocked, and then I really cramped and had problems with my hip from about the last 15 km. It's really cold but I don't blame the conditions and I'm still there to come back again," Kipchoge said. And finally, some farmers in the UK are putting turkeys on diets and killing them early so they aren't took big for a potential 'Rule of Six' Christmas dinner. The rule of six limits meeting in groups to a maximum of six people when seeing friends and family one does not live with. Since there are no signs of the rule being lifted in time for Christmas, farmers aren't expecting to sell the nine million turkeys they usually do every festive season. Farmers have been forced to come up with inventive ways to get around the slump in orders.