Anti-tobacco lobbies have protested the recent push by one of the leading tobacco companies in Kenya to have a three-year tax holiday on nicotine pouches. Speaking on their behalf at a press conference, Kenya Tobacco Control Alliance national coordinator Thomas Lindi termed the move injurious to tobacco control and other public health policies. “The push by the British American Tobacco for a three-year holiday on local production of nicotine pouches is irresponsible, deceptive, outrageous,” Thomas Lindi said. “It is an assault on the economy and the intelligence of the leadership of Kenya.” Other lobbies represented included the Kenya Tobacco Control Alliance, the National Taxpayers Association, the Non-Communicable Diseases Alliance of Kenya, the International Institute for Legislative Affairs and the Kenya Network of Cancer Organisations. BAT disclosed last month it is in talks with the Treasury and the Kenya Revenue Authority to have local production of nicotine pouches initially exempted from excise duty for two to three years. The firm said the tax holiday being advocated for production at their plant, which is close to completion, will help it start manufacturing and set up a distribution network for local sales and exports to the EAC and Comesa markets. But the anti-tobacco lobbies say tobacco products and their derivatives are known to cause preventable diseases and deaths of millions of people globally every year. “As it concerns tobacco use and its derivatives, taxation and pricing policies have been identified as the most effective strategies to reduce consumption and even encourage quitting of their use,” Lindi said. “KRA has been reporting less revenue from tobacco in recent years instead of more every year. This has raised suspicion tobacco companies could be avoiding and evading tax. This is hurting the economy.” The lobbies also want the government to deregister Lyft, a new product introduced by tobacco firms in the country. Lindi said the product is not a pharmaceutical drug, adding that in essence, it is causing serious addiction among the youth. Lyft is a nicotine pouch marketed by BAT Kenya as an alternative to cigarettes for addicted smokers. The product has been gaining popularity since it was introduced in the market late last year. Of great concern, however, is that they are being abused by children as they are sold over the counter and are easily found even in local shops for only Sh20. The lobbies want the government to impose a ban on nicotine pouches or impose stiffer regulatory measures on how such products are sold and dispensed. “The government should remain committed to protecting public health by imposing heavy taxes on all products being introduced into the market by tobacco companies, including oral nicotine products and e-cigarettes,” Lindi said. “The taxation level should be equal to those of combustible tobacco products.” The pouch is usually placed in the mouth between the lip and gums for extended periods. A warning written on the product says it contains nicotine, which is a highly addictive substance. BAT has, however, always maintained that the product is a tobacco-free modern oral nicotine pouch and is meant for the adult population. Ketca chairman Joel Gitali said, “Products that cause addiction that have got similar effects to those we experience by consuming tobacco must be treated the way we treat tobacco products. “So there is no way someone will tell us this nicotine does not come from tobacco and, therefore, it should not be treated like that one that comes from tobacco.” Gitali called on the government to take responsibility and protect Kenyans and especially the youth from such products. Edited by T Jalio