Bullish Deputy President William Ruto has urged the police to stop intimidating his allies and interfering with his functions. Speaking on Tuesday at his Karen residence during a meeting with Narok county leaders, Ruto said there is a trend of politically instigated violence. Pro-government leaders have asked him to take responsibility for the chaos that erupted moments after he arrived at a Murang'a church in Kenol for a fundraiser on Sunday. Two men were killed, dozens were injured and property damaged was sizeable. The DP also cited the chaos that erupted in Kisii last month hours before he arrived in the South Nyanza county as another example of police interference. “It also happened in Kajiado recently where the provincial administration was used to intimidate and threaten wananchi from attending my function,” he said. Ruto, who is set to embark on another campaign tour, asked Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai to stop taking instructions from people he termed "political brokers and power- thirsty government officials". He urged him to stand on the side of justice and serve all Kenyans without discrimination. Ruto said the security apparatus is well aware of the organisers and perpetrators of Kenol violence “and they should just proceed and arrest them”. He regretted that the police were increasingly being used to execute political assignments. “The security apparatus is aware of those who caused the violence. Action must be taken against them, irrespective of their political standing,” he said. Ruto said the spots of violence being witnessed in his meetings were a product of those uncomfortable with the conversion of the empowerment of the ordinary people. “We do not want the politics of balkanization, of dividing the country along tribal enclaves,” he said, instead noting the country was yawning for issue-based politics. “We want the politics of uniting and transforming our country. Let us focus on the politics of the ordinary people.” He added that his desire to lift those at the bottom of the pyramid is not a threat to those at the peak of it. “We can all walk together. No one is at threat with this new conversation,” the Deputy President said. He warned that he would not be stopped from discharging his duties and that he will even intensify his call for a change in political conversation in Kenya. “It is difficult. It is uncomfortable. But we must have this discussion. We are going to intensify this talk so that we can empower everyone,” he noted. Ruto hosted the Maa community grassroot leaders and MPs at his Karen residence. Among the leaders present were Gabriel Tongoyo (Narok West), Aramat Lemanken (Narok East), Mpaayei Phillip (Kajiado), David ole Sankok (nominated) and George Sunkuyia (Kajiado West). Others were Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East), Mohammed Ali (Nyali), Japheth Mutai (Bureti), Mugambi Rindikiri (Buuri), Malulu Injendi (Malava) and former Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar. Tongoyo said the police must be independent and avoid being abused to push the interests of some political desires. On his part, Lemanken asked leaders to unite and work together in developing the country. “Let us compete on issues and development track-record,” he said. While pledging their support for Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid, the leaders asked Kenyans to resist attempts by some leaders to intimidate religious organisations for their selfish gains. “If not tamed, there is a tendency of such attacks on churches going on,” Sunkuyia said. Sankok said Jubilee Party is a product of the church, and it was thus a show of disrespect to President Uhuru Kenyatta by throwing teargas to the place of worship. From Thursday, Ruto is expected to embark on his series of countrywide tours. He will be in Interior Cabinet secretary Fred Matiang’i’s home county of Nyamira and will on Friday be back in Kisii where he was a few weeks ago. The DP will then take his hustler gospel to Kakamega county where he will preside over a funds drive at St Joseph Catholic Church in Dangalasia Koyonzo Matungu Subcounty on Sunday. From Matungulu, the DP will finalise his charm offensive with a tour of Mumias East constituency where he will be hosted by former Majority whip Benjamin Washiali. Edited by EKibii