The government will intensify efforts to eradicate cattle rustling along Rift Valley and Nyanza borders, regional commissioner Magu Mutindika has said. Mutindika warned that rustling along Kisumu-Nandi, Kisumu-Kericho, Migori-Narok, Nyamira-Bomet and Narok-Bomet borders will not be tolerated. “The government continues to closely monitor cattle rustling along the Migori-Narok border in a bid to recover all illegal firearms used in the cattle theft,” he said. He said the disarmament would ensure that peace prevails and people co-exist harmoniously in the region. “Illegal activities which include stock theft by criminal gangs must be brought to an end. There is a sustained government crackdown to end the crime and culprits punished,” Mutindika told journalists in Kisii town. He noted that following sustained efforts from the Nyanza and Rift Valley joint committees, the border areas have remained relatively calm. Mutindika said the proliferation of illicit brews from neighbouring Uganda remains a challenge to security chiefs in Nyanza. “The region suffers contagion of illicit brews. There have been continuous crackdowns in all counties, but the illegal entry of Ugandan brews into the region adds to the headache. But let me confirm that this is also being addressed,” he said. The administrator cautioned "unpatriotic" government officers abetting cattle rustling that they will be identified and action taken against them in accordance with the law. “The government will continue to monitor the trend to ensure complete eradication of the brews either smuggled into the country or brewed locally.” Mutindika warned that political temperatures continue to rise as the country approaches the next general election but assured that the government shall do everything possible to prevent any violence. “Nyanza is among the regions that usually experience violence during electioneering periods but I am glad our leaders are, this time around, keen on ensuring that peace prevails as they embraced one another in the spirit of nationhood and in pursuit of national unity,” the commissioner said. He added: “It is my appeal to you all my countrymen, to maintain the prevailing peace throughout the year and even coming moments of electioneering as this reflects on the vision of our nation's founders in their struggle for Independence.” On the perennial floods in Nyanza, Mutindika said the government has developed early warning systems to keep an eye on the levels of water and alert members of the public to run to safety in case of possible danger. “We are working as a team with the World Vision, Kenya Red Cross, and other non-governmental organisations who have always helped us to evacuate the affected in good time and provide basic assistance. I can also not forget to thank the county governments for their interventions by ensuring that drainage systems are in order while rehabilitating or putting up new dykes where necessary thus safeguarding lives,” he said. 