Simba SC midfielder Francis Kahata and Zesco United custodian Ian Otieno were the first foreign-based players to join Harambee Stars residential training camp at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani yesterday. The duo's entry boosted the training sessions as coach Francis Kimanzi prepares his boys for an international friendly match against the Chipolopolo of Zambia, tentatively set for this Friday. The Zambia clash is part of the team's training for a 2021 Africa Cup of Nations two-legged qualifier against Comoros next month. Kahata was instrumental in the impressive run registered by the Tanzanian giants as they went ahead to clinch the title. He is making a comeback to the squad after a lackadaisical outing in the 2019 Afcon in Egypt that saw him watch most of the matches from the bench. Kenya kicked off their qualifying campaign with an impressive 1-1 draw away to Egypt and summed it up with another draw against Togo in Nairobi. 11-local-based players had pitched camp at Kasarani before the two arrived and kitted themselves up for the task ahead. Many of the rest of the foreign-based players are were expected last evening and are therefore expected to shore up the numbers for Kimanzi, who is, unfortunately, going to miss veteran keeper Arnold Origi, midfielder Eric Johanna and Japan-based goal machine Michael Olunga. But in another development, it has emerged that Football Kenya Federation are yet to get a government clearance to stage the encounter in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. FKF president Nick Mwendwa confirmed  they were yet to receive the clearance from the Ministry of Sports but remained hopeful since Cabinet Secretary for Sports, Amina Mohamed, had promised to help them navigate through the set Covid-19 restrictions. Meanwhile, all the players in camp were taken through a mandatory Covid-19 test on arrival as a safety procedure. Provisional squad: Goalkeepers: Ian otieno (Zesco United), Timothy Odhiambo (Ulinzi Stars); Defenders: Brian Mandela (unattached), Johnstone Omurwa (Wazito), Joash Onyango (Simba), Joseph Okumu (Elfsborg, Sweden),  Clarke Oduor (Barnsley, England), David Owino (Mathare United), Philemon Otieno (Gor Mahia),  Badi Baraka (KCB); Midfielders: Kenneth Muguna (Gor), Francis Kahata (Simba, Tanzani), Cliff Nyakeya (Masr FC, Egypt), Anthony Akumu (Kaizer Chiefs), Hassan Abdalla (Bandari), Lawrence Juma (Gor), Katana Mohammed (Isloch, Belarus), Austin Otieno (AFC Leopards); Forwards: Elvis Rupia (AFC Leopards), Masoud Juma (JS Kabylie, Algeria), Timothy Otieno (Napsa Stars, Zambia), Oscar Wamalwa (Ulinzi Stars).