Kwale farmers will now enjoy good profits for their produce after the county government pledged to buy fresh farm supplies from them. The new development comes as the county aims at boosting agribusiness ahead of the grand opening of the long-awaited multimillion Kombani fresh produce wholesale market. It was built at a cost of about Sh120 million to help spur Kwale’s economy. The market is expected to be operational in a month’s time and will supply the locals with fresh farm produce. It will be the second-largest in Coast after Kongowea market in Mombasa. Speaking on Monday at Nyalani in Kinango, Governor Salim Mvurya said all the Kwale government departments will procure supplies from within the county. “From now on the health facilities and other sectors in need of vegetables, cereals, grains and eggs will purchase them from you,” he said. The governor said his administration targets to improve livelihoods by getting rid of poverty through farming. The county’s move is also intended to cushion local farmers from the effects of Covid-19 pandemic as the demand for commodities went down when the economy was disrupted. Mvurya said the county has the potential to produce surplus food and stop being reliant on aid during the dry season. He said irrigation systems had been laid down in various areas of the region to ensure consistent supply of food. Some of these areas are Dziweni, Kikwakwani, Mwakalanga and Kizingo where dams play a crucial role in supplying farmers with water for irrigation and domestic consumption. The governor made the remarks after promoting Nyalani farmers by buying vegetables worth Sh100, 000. Nyalani is well-known for its fresh produce of spinach, onions, sukuma wiki, tomatoes, watermelons and okra among others. It gets its water from Nyalani dam which was started in 1952 by the British but brought back to life by the county government in partnership with the M-Pesa Foundation in 2014 costing over Sh200 million. The dam was meant to address the harsh climatic conditions and introduce locals to agricultural activities to beat hunger. Edited by Henry Makori