Wading through water rising up to their waists, boys living on the shores of Lake Turkana try to salvage what is left of their family possessions. They struggle to snatch their household items from the raging water and move them by boat to higher grounds. Other families stand by in despair observing the aftermath of the destruction caused by the swelling lake. Lake Turkana is one of five Rift Valley lakes experiencing rising water levels due to the ongoing rains. The others are Nakuru, Naivasha, Baringo and Bogoria. Lake Turkana's water level has risen from 500m to 800m and flooded beaches, hotels, homes and government offices. Akalale Eiton, 56, said the rising water level is a threat to the lives of residents after their homes and other property were destroyed. The mother of eight children said the rising of the water level is unprecedented. “We are worried about our lives and future. Our lives are in danger as we may be killed by the raging waters. It has never been like this for many years. We are spending the nights in the cold with nothing to eat because the surging lake has halted fishing activities that we depend on for survival,” she said. The water flooded her house and washed away clothes, food and the fishing gear her family depends on. Paul Ekai, a resident of Kalokol and a fisherman, said the lake swept away homes and disrupted fishing activities. “The lake is angry. It has turned against us now and we are forced to spend our nights in the cold. I have lost everything. My house has gone, fishing gear such as boats and fishing nets have been destroyed by the water and now I’m forced to hunt game for survival,” Ekai said. The county government said at least 24,320 people living on the shores of Lake Turkana have been displaced. Governor Josphat Nanok said the affected residents are in Kerio, Kangatotha, Kalokol and Lake Zone wards. The rising lake threatens the livelihoods of about 500,000 people. The Turkwel Dam is almost full. “My government and other partners have come up with a comprehensive contingency plan for managing the expected spillover of the dam and rising water level of Lake Turkana,” Nanok said during Mashujaa Day celebrations in Lodwar last week. Fishers and the community are counting heavy losses as a result of the surging lake. Nanok said the swelling lake has submerged the once dry sandy beaches, beach hotels, public offices and nearby homes. He urged residents to move to higher ground. The governor said fishing activities have been halted, rendering hundreds of people jobless. “Some of the hotels have been submerged and fisherfolk and residents near the lake have lost business. The adverse effect has already been felt in Turkana and Turkana Central subcounties,” Nanok said. Peter Ejore, a fisherman and a resident of Kalokol, said the raging water has destroyed their fresh fish storage facilities equipped with refrigerators, dry fish stores, beach management unit offices as well as boats and nets. “The lake is still swelling. We are worried about what is going to happen next. We normally depend on fishing activities for survival but since the lake started swelling we cannot risk dropping fishing nets in the water,” he said. Esther Ebei, 37, a fisher dealer in Kalokol, said since Covid-19 was reported in Kenya, life has not been easy for the fisherfolk and with the surging lake the situation has worsened. “We depend on fishing activities to pay school fees for our children and to supplement the daily income. But since Covid-19 was reported, fishing activities have been halted as buyers from the Democratic Republic of Congo are restricted to enter the country yet we depend on them as the main buyers and this has decreased the demand for fish,” he said. The rising lake has also exposed residents to crocodiles and hippos, leading to human-wildlife conflict. The residents fear outbreaks of waterborne diseases. Jane Ekidor, 34, a fishmonger, thanked God that despite the water flooding her home, she did not lose her life but she was worried about crocodile and hippo attacks and waterborne diseases. “Our lives are in danger. We are homeless. We cannot hide from attacks of crocodiles and hippos,” she said. Jemimah Ekutan said: “We are exposed to mosquito bites since we spend our nights in the cold. We also don’t have clean water for drinking and many people are forced to drink dirty water from the lake. We are at risk of contracting waterborne diseases.” She appealed to the government and partners for help. “We cannot blame anyone for the surging of the lake but the government and other relevant authorities have failed us. They only wait until things are worse before coming to help. To date, we are still being told to move to higher ground but we haven’t been told where to go. We cannot just move. We live along the shores of the lake for fishing activities to support our livelihoods,” Ekutan said. The rising water level in Rift Valley lakes has forced thousands of people out of their homes, submerged huge areas of farmland, utilities and displaced animals from parks. The water of lakes Nakuru, Naivasha, Baringo, Turkana and Bogoria has risen to levels not seen in 75 years, according to the Water Resources Authority. WRA attributes the phenomenon to tectonic activities and the effects of climate change on rainfall patterns. Chairman Joe Mutambu who visited Turkwel Dam in Turkana attributed the rising water to heavy rainfall in the area. Fear has gripped residents of Turkana following reports that Turkwel Dam may spill over anytime. WRA warned that an estimated 300,000 people living along the Turkwel River are likely to be displaced from their homes and millions of shillings worth of property destroyed. Ongoing rain in Mt Elgon and Cherang'any Hills has filled the dam to its highest level ever. Nanok urged downstream communities in the Turkwel basin in Lobokat, Kaputir, Katilu, Lobei-Kotaruk, Turkwel, Township, Kanamkemer, Kerio and Kangatotha wards to move to higher grounds. Nanok said the flooding will hurt the economy of Lodwar town and other towns along the Turkwel River and increase waterborne diseases. “It will also cause damage to irrigation schemes and infrastructure. Lodwar town is at risk of being submerged if the spillage occurs. It will lead to loss of lives and livelihoods, property and destruction of the environment,” the governor said.  Edited by Henry Makori