A lobby group from Western Kenyan has urged President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga not to entertain those calling for a review of the BBI report and instead lead the country to a referendum. Magharibi Youth Alliance bringing together youthful legislators and various leaders claimed that the push to subject the recommendations to another round of review is only meant to derail the process. Addressing a media conference on Tuesday, the leaders led by MPs Caleb Amisi (Saboti), Godfrey Osotsi (nominated) and ODM Secretary General Edwin Sifuna said the window to give views is long gone and it is now time to move to the next step. "Policy issues should be taken to the cabinet, legislative ones to Parliament while those touching on the Constitution should be taken to the people through a referendum," Osotsi said. "The window to give views is closed. The Constitutional amendment Bill is sealed, we are not going to open discussion on an issue that has taken two years." The leaders were apparently responding to calls by Deputy President William Ruto to have sections of the document relooked with the aim of increasing its acceptability. Ruto on Monday expressed his reservations about the BBI report in its current form, calling for a review to reflect the needs of all Kenyans. The DP said the proposal on the establishment of the office of  Ombudsman, which will be appointed by the Executive is a derogation of the independence of the Judiciary. Ruto said that this might take the country back to the dark days, where the president used to issue guidelines to judges in some cases via a mere phone call. He said that majority of Kenyans are still struggling to access justice, and that some matters are yet to be handled as per the Constitution. Regarding the suggested establishment of the office of the Ombudsman, Ruto said that it will interfere with the judicial performance as well as its independence. On the proposals on the IEBC, Ruto said they are not clear and BBI has not issued a solution to the winner-takes it all perception in the country when it comes to elections.