Kisii University has ordered its first-year students to report back to school next week for in-person learning. A notice to students published in the local dallies, the Academic and student affairs registrar, Joash Kerongo, announced that reopening will be done in phases. The new students will report back between October 13 and 16; however, they will not be the first to report back. On October 8, the institution will receive part-time finalists, all year four science students, those in law and medical school and will go on for a fortnight. The new students are expected to be oriented and begin face to face learning on October 26. However, Joash Kerongo, the student registrar remarks that the institution will employ a hybrid of in-person and e-learning. Science students in Year 2 and 3 will report between October 21-30. Diploma, certificate, freshers and postgraduate students will report back to campus between November 2 and December 23. All students in session between May and August, December 12 and 23. Last week, the Education CS announced that universities could begin reopening for in-person learning but if they comply with health guidelines and protocols to stem the spread of coronavirus. This include; monitoring of the body temperature for all learners and all other persons accessing the institutions, observance of high levels of hygiene, hand washing/use of sanitizers, and the adoption of innovative approaches to uphold the guidelines on physical and social distancing and the use of face masks/shields. “Pursuant to the presidential directives… the Ministry of Education will commence with the reopening of universities and tertiary institutions with effect from Monday, October 5, 2020,” said Magoha. The CS also allowed university councils and their senates to decide and announce in-person learning for students in other academic years. Consideration was to be given to those undertaking science-based courses. Last week, Education ministry officials oversaw fumigation of learning institutions in readiness to reopening.