Kenya Power has disconnected many houses in Lityei area in Kapenguria because of illegal power connections by con men seeking bribes. Residents have been complaining about disconnections, the outcry forcing Governor John Lonyangapuo to visit the homes to determine the exact problem. He cited cartels in the county working with con men posing as Kenya Power workers. Kenya Power and county staff will be investigated. Kenya Power senior staff from North Rift also toured the villages to investigate the disconnections. Kenya Power North Rift regional manager Engineer Kibias said individuals posing as Kenyan Power workers are installing illegal connections - at a price. But they are not properly installed, potentially leading to blackouts and ires. Kibias warned the fraudsters they will be arrested and prosecuted. “Individuals are posing as KPLC officials who con people and instal faulty power lines,” he said. The official called on the public to help identify the fraudsters since the company is being blamed for fires and problems resulting from  illegal connections. Kibias said the company is committed to connecting more homes to power and promised to replace faulty transformers so residents get quality service. "We are committed to reducing this public outcry and these complaints," he said. Kibias also promised to investigate his own staff colluding with imposters to swindle the public, resulting in disconnections. Eng Kipkemoi advised customers to make all payments for electricity connections directly to Kenya Power offices and report suspicious activities. He added the company is upgrading primary and substations. Governor Lonyangapuo said there has been a huge public outcry over frequent power blackouts and disconnections. “During the visit, we discovered there are cartels at the county offices masquerading as Kenya Power staff who have been receiving payments to facilitate illegal power connections to many homes," he said. Lonyangapuo urged residents not to pay individuals for power connections  and only pay through official Kenya Power accounts using mobile money transfers. Customers complained Kenya Power disconnected electricity without notice. They said it takes too long for the company to discover power lines are  faulty - but requires customers to pay in the meantime. (Edited by V. Graham)