Uasin Gishu leaders have condoled with the family of prominent Eldoret MCA Peter Chomba who died on Saturday in Eldoret. He was 58. Chomba was MCA for Huruma ward, the largest in Eldoret town, and was well known for fighting for the rights of the business community, especially hawkers. Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi was among the first to arrive at Eldoret Hospital, where he died, and said the region has lost a dedicated leader. "We are so saddened by this sudden and tragic loss of one of our leaders in this region and we join the family in mourning his passing," Sudi said. His brother Lenny Chomba said the third-term MCA had fallen in his bathroom two weeks ago and was undergoing treatment for injuries. On Saturday morning, he felt unwell at home and was rushed to hospital where he died under treatment, the family said. Sudi, Soy MP Caleb Kositany and Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno convened a prayer meeting at the Highlands Hotel to pray for the family of Chomba and the country. "It's sad that at a time when the President has called for national prayers for our country we have too also mourn our fallen colleague," Kositany said. Chomba was a close ally of DP William Ruto. In his condolence message delivered by Chemno, Mandago eulogised Chomba for his contribution in most legislation passed at the Uasin Gishu assembly, saying that he ensured harmony in urban development and establishment of a good business environment within Eldoret town. "We  recognised he was a formidable leader, that is why he led Huruma ward for over 15 years,”  Chemno said. Uasin Gishu Speaker David Kiplagat, while condoling with his colleague’s family, asked county residents to pray for the family. The leaders spoke on Saturday morning at an Eldoret hotel where they had gathered with the Chomba family to pray and plan for MCA Chomba’s requiem mass  nd  interment. Family and friends continue to meet at Chomba’s family home for prayers and burial arrangements. County Ford Kenya chairman for the county John Bunyasi also died after a short illness.  he family of Bunyasi said he had been unwell for almost three weeks he died on Saturday. Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula and secretary general Chris Wamalwa described Bunyasi as a humble and dedicated party official who believed in its ideals. (Edited by V. Graham) 