Deputy President William Ruto has been rendered irrelevant in government and pushed into the opposition,  political scientist Amukowa Anangwe has said. Ruto should seize the opportunity and demonstrate that he can be an opposition leader as a prelude to his quest to take power in 2022. Anangwe said the DP should fill the void created when ODM leader Raila Odinga decided to work President Uhuru Kenyatta's government. Ruto should stop idling after his job was taken by Interior CS Fred Matiang'i through an administrative fiat. "Nature hates vacuums particularly political ones and Ruto should opt out of government and assume the role of the leader of opposition in order to keep the government on toes in the remaining two years to convince Kenyans that he has what it takes to stand on his own," Anangwe said. He said Ruto should exploit opposition politics in order to offer alternative leadership and sell his political agenda freely. "It was a bit presumptuous for Ruto to imagine that he could become the president right away from being deputy when Kenyan history is characterised by the fact that all those who have become president and those aspiring have had a stint in the opposition," he said. "Founding president the late Jomo Kenyatta opposed the colonialists. The late Daniel Moi opposed Kenyatta. Raila, Kalonzo Musyoka and Musalia Mudavadi have had a stint in the opposition. As it were, Ruto was going to skip from Form One to Form Four, without the experience of opposition politics and activism". The former Butere MP said Ruto should be the leader of opposition whose role is to offer alternative solutions, which is missing in Kenya today. He said democracy presupposes that there are two antagonistic sides, the government side and the opposition. Democracy never anticipates a situation where both sides are the government. Anangwe said the Constitution never anticipated that the President and his deputy could have irreconcilable differences to such an extent. "The reality now is that the President and his deputy have parted ways and the marriage is on the rocks in spite of having taken the oath of office to serve for a five- year term up to 2022," he said. "They never envisaged a situation where the President may wish to sack his deputy when the latter becomes unruly. There is a need for a new constitutional mechanism in future to deal with such a situation". Former ANC secretary general Barrack Muluka said it was difficult to tell whether the DP has or has not absconded duty. "What we're witnessing in the country is politics coming from people in opposition and not those in government," he said. "They're trying to curry favour to the President. The country has never been at the lowest ebb in its fortunes than it is today where there are people who are angling to succeed the President with one leg in opposition and another ambiguous leg in government and are all trying to look good to the President". Edited by Henry Makori