Taita Taveta is now preparing for gradual reopening of vocational training centres, Governor Granton Samboja has said. Samboja said in a statement on Monday that his administration is working in collaboration with the Ministry of Education and other partners to resume learning in all institutions, including vocational training centres. He said measures have been put in place to allow trainees resume leaning in the VTCs, underscoring the key role the institutions play in providing quality training and standards that match market demands. “I support the decision by the government to reopen schools after months of closure. We are all working towards reopening of all institutions,” he said. The county boss further directed the Health department to closely work with school heads to ensure strict adherence to all protocols set to curb the coronavirus. “The department will be tasked to ensure that all institutions are following the guidelines. We urge school heads to be keen on every learner to control possible spread of the virus,” he added. According to Education, Libraries and VTCs executive Daniel Makoko, trainers in the centres have been trained in the Learners Management System in readiness for the reopening. The training is aimed at equipping tutors with online skills that will, among other benefits, enable them to issue gradable assignments that allow files to be uploaded, allow class participants to have real-time discussions, allow them to create and conduct surveys and collect feedback. The digital platform will also allow teachers to design and set tests, which may be automatically marked and feedback for the same shown. "On the aspect of lessons, the system will help users deliver educational content in flexible ways. It will also enable online classes through conducting a live session and use features such as whiteboard," he noted. Its adoption will see instructors conduct surveys among students to help teachers learn about their class and reflect on their own teaching. County principal vocational training officer Raphael Chola said plans were on top to ensure all standards are met before reopening. “Stakeholders are still deliberating on possible reopening and most of the institutions are now ready to receive back the trainees,” he said. Chola further urged more stakeholders to partner with the county government to empower more residents with vocational skills. "It is worth noting that in recent times, employers have turned to VTCs and colleges to recruit employees. Their skills have been well polished and they are ready to take up jobs. We, therefore, need more partnership," he said.