Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja has endorsed the Building Bridges Initiative report, saying it will benefit county governments. He said apart from the new document proposing that more cash be given to counties, it will also help strengthen devolution. “Proposals to raise allocations to county governments to more than a third of state revenue is a great boost to the devolved units,” Samboja said. Currently, the Constitution provides that at least 15 per cent of the national revenue be allocated to the devolved units. The national government is, however, at liberty to allocate more than 15 per cent of the revenue to the counties. The BBI proposes that Chapter 11 should be amended by increasing the resources to the counties from 15 per cent to at least 35 per cent of the last audited accounts. Further, Samboja said the proposal to retain 290 constituencies was a reprieve for Taita Taveta county, which risked losing a constituency for failing to meet the population quota. “It is now clear, going forward, all the constituencies shall remain as they are. That is a plus to our region because all our four constituencies are protected,” he added. The governor said the report shall form a strong basis for uniting the country and preventing further political unrest. “The handshake was meant to cure the political unrest witnessed after every election. If the BBI is passed, we shall be sure of peaceful elections,” Samboja observed. Meanwhile, Taita Taveta Woman Representative Lydia Haika and Voi MP Jones Mlolwa have asked Kenyans to carefully read the report and understand it. They said this will help citizens make an informed decision on whether to support it or not. “We want Kenyans to be allowed to keenly read and evaluate the report in an open and objective way before taking sides,” Haika said during the issuance of Uwezo Fund loans in Voi. Haika further asked the BBI task force to print and distribute copies of the report across the country. She said many Kenyans might not make an independent decision if the team fails to make the document accessible to all Kenyans. The legislator further said women leaders  – woman representatives, MPs and senators – will convene a national meeting to deliberate on the contents of the report. Edited by A.N