Bars and restaurants found flouting the Covid-19 containment measures and protocols in place will have their operating permits withdrawn. On Monday, President Uhuru Kenyatta allowed the establishments to operate but under strict protocols. They are all expected to be closed at 10pm daily until further notice. The National Authority for the Campaign Against Alcohol and Drug Abuse (NACADA) in a statement on Thursday put on notice wines and spirits shops selling alcohol on site contrary to requirements that such premises sell take away basis only. Consumption of beverages is not permitted to be undertaken within them. “Nacada wishes to inform proprietors of bars, eateries, restaurants and wines and spirits that the authority will coordinate responsible multi agencies to ensure that only those premises that meet the requirements of the Alcoholic Drinks Control Act, 2010 shall be allowed to operate,” NACADA CEO Victor Okioma said. He added: “The authority has been conducting continuous surveillance of outlets that dispense alcohol across the country and has observed a tendency where wines and spirits have been flouting the law by dispensing alcohol on site.” The CEO noted that the agency will continue carrying out its surveillance and compliance related crackdowns to assess the level of adherence to the President’s directives and protocols issued by the Health Ministry. Similarly, Okioma said NACADA in liaison with other agencies will closely monitor establishment and mushrooming of bars and other alcohol dispensing premises within residential places, areas around learning institutions and religious places. “Bars are advised to ensure that they exercise responsibility as they conduct their business in guaranteeing strict adherence to all necessary guidelines and operating hours,” Okioma said. The CEO noted that the authority welcomes the Presidential directive lifting the prohibition against the operation of bars and sale of alcoholic drinks and beverages by ordinary restaurants and eateries, but noted that the closing time set by the President should be strictly adhered to.