The first cohort of Kenyan children registered for malaria vaccine are expected to receive their fourth and final dose in February next year. The 65,000 children had by July this year received their third dose of Mosquirix. Those aged between six and 24 months will get four doses at six, seven, nine and 24 months through an injection on the upper arm. The vaccine targets children in Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma, Busia, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori and Siaya counties. It was launched in September last year in Kenya alongside Ghana and Malawi as a pilot. According to the World Health Organization, Mosquirix has undergone all clinical trials and was effective in 30 to 50 per cent of cases. The pilot will assess the feasibility of delivering the four doses in real-life settings and assess the vaccine’s ability to reduce deaths in children. “Clinical trials of the malaria vaccine were conducted between 2009 and 2014 across a network of African research sites, with promising results leading to the introduction and use of the vaccine on the African continent to reduce malaria and malaria-related complications,” Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said. The CS spoke on behalf of President Uhuru Kenyatta during the just-concluded  virtual malaria event at the 75th United Nations’ General Assembly. Uhuru is the chair of the African Leaders Malaria Alliance. “As a continent, we are also on track to reach more children than ever before with the provision of malaria medicines to children at risk in the Sahel region of Africa where malaria transmission is highly seasonal and has a profound impact on the population’s livelihoods.” Malaria is still the second biggest cause of reported deaths in Kenya after respiratory infections, according to the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics. Data from the World Malaria Report indicates that more than 200 million people contracted malaria in 2018, with the disease claiming 380,000 lives. Kagwe noted that over the past two decades, investments and concerted efforts by governments and partners ensured that seven million lives were saved and one billion malaria cases prevented. He however said that in the past few years, progress in the fight against malaria has stalled. Similarly, the CS noted that domestic funding for malaria needs to be sustained and increased, adding that resources are going to be more scarce than ever before due to competition for support across various needs and sectors. “Locally established End Malaria Councils and Funds will be critical to maintain public and private sector resource investments and help sustain funding to avoid the reversal of the gains." He urged countries to refocus their efforts to ensure continued advancement towards meeting SDG 3: healthy lives and promotion of well-being.  