The Law Society of Kenya President Nelson Havi has confirmed they have served the Speakers and Clerks of National Assembly and Senate with their notice of entry to Parliament Buildings on Monday afternoon. The 'Occupy Parliament' movement is the latest push by the LSK to force President Uhuru Kenyatta to dissolve the Parliament as advised by Chief Justice David Maraga on September 21 over its failure to implement the two-thirds gender rule. Also copied in the notice is the Inspector General of Police who the LSK wants to provide the necessary facilitation into Parliament Buildings on Monday at 2.30 pm. In the notice seen by the Star, LSK says the parliamentarians will have ceased to exercise their legislative powers on behalf of Kenyans. "Please make arrangements to host the representatives who will not be 20 in number," the LSK notice reads. Apart from LSK members, those who will be part of the delegation include representatives from the United Green Movement (UGM) of Kenya and Weare52pc. Havi insisted the parliamentarians would have become illegitimate and trespassers by Monday. Havi said the President has no option but to send MPs home for failure to enact legislation implementing the constitutional two-thirds gender requirement. It stipulates that no more than two thirds of any public elected or appointed body shall be of the same gender. "The People of Kenya must know that: President Uhuru Kenyatta against whom the advice by the Chief Justice is directed is not a party to the cases in which stay was granted; LSK is also not a party and subject to the order; and on 7.10.2020, Justice Korir declined a request by Parliament to stop the entry," Havi said on Sunday. "The Judge held that LSK was not a party to cases before it and no adverse order could be made against it. The Judge further stated that the protest was permissible in exercise of right to demonstrate. Constitutional order must be restored." Havi said the President has until Monday, October 12, to dissolve Parliament. The LSK and UGM argued that the High Court case by the Executive seeking an injunction against dissolution is an attempt to subvert the constitutional order to ensure politicians are not held accountable.