Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago has warned North Rift residents against ignoring Covid-19 guidelines. Mandago said this is the only way to stop the spread of Covid-19 in the region, where several people, including an MCA, have died from the disease in the last two weeks. He noted that locals, like in various parts of the country, have stopped observing Covid-19 control measures, leading to a spike in infections in the region. Uasin Gishu, Nandi and Trans Nzoia are now reporting high number of cases daily. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has warned that some counties are likely to face a crisis, as hospital beds reserved for Covid-19 patients get filled up. The governor said Uasin Gishu is now reporting more than 50 cases daily. “We have checked in supermarkets, on the streets and even in entertainment places and the situation is chaotic with people not wearing masks, no handwashing and no social distancing. We are courting a crisis,” Mandago warned. He spoke in Eldoret after a leaders' meeting following the death of Huruma MCA Peter Chomba, who succumbed to Covid-19-related complications last week. Mandago said many people were losing lives in the region and it was important that efforts be made by all stakeholders to save lives by stopping the spread of Covid-19. He regretted that operators of pubs and hotels were defying all measures on control of Covid-19, with serious overcrowding and ignoring use of masks yet they had promised the government that they would abide by all the control measures if allowed to operate. “We will carry out an inspection and those found to be disobeying the measures will have their licenses withdrawn immediately,” the county boss said. He was accompanied by speaker David Kiplagat and Majority leader Josphat Lowoi, among other MCAs. All the staff and workers at the Uasin Gishu assembly are undergoing Covid-19 testing following the death of Chomba. Kiplagat said Chomba was working at the assembly and the tests were a precautionary measure because there may be colleagues who got into contact with him. Chomba’s elder brother Lenny said all family members have been tested and were waiting for results. “We will accept the results that will come out of the tests and comply with all control measures,” Lenny said. Chomba will be buried on Tuesday at the Kamkunji cemetery under Covid-19 guidelines. 