Vihiga Governor Wilber Ottichilo has told his opponents he has no time for useless politics and should be allowed to serve the people. The governor said voters are not interested in daily political wrangles but rather want services. "We must make development our first agenda in this county, every constituency and the wards as well," Ottichilo said. To realise development in the counties, leaders should be ready to work together, he said. Ottichilo spoke to the Star at the weekend when he met elders from Luanda South at Maseno Trinity Centre. Hamisi MP Charles Gimose urged lawmakers to iron out their differences to serve residents. Ottichilo dismissed claims of neglecting ODM party and said those who says so should tell him how he has neglected the party. "I have been running the ODM office in this county for the last one-and-half years. What else do they want?" Ottichilo said. “Do they want me to paint everything orange in the entire county so that they can feel I support ODM?” He said Public Service CEC Pamela Kimwele was from the ODM secretariat. Ottichilo's was reacting to the remarks of a cleric from his backyard who accused him for neglecting the party and its members. The governor said elective offices are for public interest and not party issues. "I can’t fill the entire county offices with ODM people even when they don't qualify. That would be unfair to the people I am serving," he said. Ottichilo said devolution serves everyone regardless of their political affiliation. The governor said jobs in the county or the national level are based on qualifications and not the party. He urged to people holding offices across the country to ensure even their opponents are included in the government. Ottichilo urged county residents not to fall into the trap of cheap politics that can't spur county development. On the disputed Maseno boundary, Ottichilo said the issue has been there for the last 100 years and it is the IEBC to handle it. "But the  boundary row should not be an excuse for the government to deny residents services," Ottichilo said. He said the move by his Kisumu counterpart Anyang' Nyong'o to upgrade the area will help the community. Kisumu county has allocated Sh40 million to upgrade Maseno town. Deputy Governor Patrick Saisi said people around the area have the rights to receive services just as those in the rest of the county. "Let's not be so reactive on this boundary issue and when it comes to service delivery we behave like we don't hear,"Saisi said. Ottichilo said residents of Maseno will be among the beneficiaries of the Belgium-funded water project currently nearing completion. Edited by Henry Makori