Amani National Congress leader Musali Mudavadi has urged politicians to focus on economic recovery. Mudavadi on Sunday said all political leaders should stop politicking and come up with ways that will see the country recover from the distress occasioned by COVID-19 pandemic. Mudavadi said Kenya is currently at an economic crossroad that requires concerted efforts by all leaders regardless of their political affiliations to help it rise again. The ANC leader who has shown interest in running for the presidency in the 2022  general elections urged politicians to shelve succession politics and instead help rebuild Kenya. He spoke during a Sunday Service at the Presbyterian Church of East Africa in Gilgil Town. He was accompanied by MPs Beatrice Adagala (Vihiga Woman Representative), Sakwa Bunyasi (Nambale), Alfred Agoi(Sabatia) and Ayub Savula(Lugari). Mudavadi said it was unfortunate that leaders were busy politicking in the middle of a pandemic. He urged the electorate to keep off political hypocrites and individuals propagating divisive politics of hate and tribalism. “The country is facing numerous challenges among them, the COVID-19 pandemic that has negatively impacted on the economy and no development can be achieved in the absence of peace and unity,” he said Without mentioning names, Mudavadi wondered why some individuals were busy campaigning and busy castigating a government that they are part of. “The government of the day is Jubilee and those in it are to carry the cross of its good and bad deeds,” he said. On the Building Bridges Initiative, Mudavadi said he will only comment about the matter after he reads the report. “ANC gave its views to the Yusuf Haji led committee and I am waiting to see what is contained in the report before I can make any comment," he said. He petitioned the government to avail the report to every Kenyans so that they could read and make informed decisions. Mudavadi at the same time urged Kenyans to read the report instead of blindly following what they were told by their leaders.