The statement issued by Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju has no legal basis and was pure politics of ego expressed by individuals who fear change. Tuju is occupying that office [secretary general] and even the Cabinet slot courtesy of the President and the Deputy President. It is unfortunate that the country has found itself in this leadership quagmire, where all and sundry have taken the advantage of Uhuru’s lacklustre to abuse the Deputy President. There is need for discipline from civil servants and political class to their seniors . We never saw what we are seeing now during the previous governments, where senior officials can dare address the DP in such a manner. There is an African saying that states, “Respect those in power so that when your turn comes, you will also be accorded the same respect”. There is no harm in Tuju and any other Jubilee member respecting the Deputy President. Some of the accusations Tuju, who is the Cabinet Secretary at large, announced to the country were that the DP and the bonafide members of the ruling party visited and held meetings at the headquarters. The other accusation is that he is holding political rallies and that he refused to attend Covid-19 conference, among others. These so-called accusations fall way below the threshold of an offence that warrants the person of the Deputy President to be embarrassed in press conferences. In fairness, Tuju should first go after party members who have been seen publicly advancing the interests of ODM and its party leader, Raila Odinga. We have seen Jubilee Party vice chairman David Murathe speak in public that they will support Raila in 2022. Is this not a greater illegality that is punishable in law? Unless Tuju is part of the team that is advancing the agenda of Raila in the party. The law is clear that a member who advances the interest of another party is subject disciplinary action. In this case, deciding not to have a candidate in Msambweni by-election in favour of ODM is itself an illegality. This amounted to disadvantaging Jubilee members in Kwale county. It is not a walk in the park to remove a member from a party, let alone the Deputy President. Advocate Ondabu spoke to the Star