Kenya could face an electoral crisis if reforms are not carried out within the next 12 months, experts warned on Monday. Election Observation Group called on stakeholders to kick start the processing of stalled 2022 election-related laws. Elog national coordinator Mulle Musau said Parliament should expedite all the bills that are pending in various House committees. Musau said any electoral proposals contained in the Building Bridges Initiative report should be subjected to public participation. “Electoral reforms and conversations that had begun in earnest through various platforms were slowed down by the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic thus significantly affecting the timelines and momentum that had been gained,” Musau said during a press briefing in Nairobi. “Where critical legislative proposals had been processed, they are stuck in Parliament. These include IEBC (Amendment) Bill, Political Primaries Bill, Election Campaign Finance Bill, and Referendum Bill, among others.” The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has for almost two years operated with only three commissioners. It has no substantive CEO since the sacking of Ezra Chiloba in October 2018. The IEBC currently has only chairman Wafula Chebukati and commissioners Boya Molu and Abdi Guliye. The commission has seven posts for commissioners. The resignations Roselyn Akombe, Paul Kurgat, Margaret Mwachanya and Connie Maina left the commission short-staffed. Commissioner Akombe resigned days before the repeat October 26, 2017, presidential election, while vice-chairperson Maina, Mwachanya and Kurgat quit in April 2018. The BBI report recommended an overhaul of the commission. Chairman Chebukati and his small team were likely to be sent parking. However, the Kreigler commission that investigated the conduct of the 2007 polls recommended that any electoral reforms should be completed two years to the polls. The IEBC (Amendment) Bill, 2019, which is expected to address the legal lacuna on how to fill vacancies at the electoral agency has been pending in Parliament. Parliament passed the bill providing the framework for the recruitment of commissioners in September last year. However, the Senate introduced some amendments and returned the bill to the National Assembly. Unlike the usual grandstanding between the two Houses, the National Assembly has ceded ground and agreed with the Senate on the changes. The National Assembly had initially settled on an 11-member panel to shortlist and interview candidates but the Senate reduced it to seven. The bill is expected to come up for debate in National Assembly with the majority of legislators promising to approve it. The initial BBI report unveiled last year recommended an overhaul of the commission, arguing the current commissioners and the secretariat do not enjoy public confidence. It also said that all the returning officers should be hired on a part-time basis through a system similar to that of hiring commissioners. They should not oversee more than one general election, it said. The BBI recommended the qualifications for the IEBC chair should be open so it is not the preserve of lawyers. It said the position should be open to anyone with at least 15 years' experience as a senior manager. The report also proposed the chairperson to be accorded more powers and also function as the chief executive officer. But Musau said Elog is opposed to the proposal that the entire commission should undergo a clean sweep. “We have insisted that changing the entire commission will bring problems. It is not a short process. How much time will it take them to learn the ropes? Let us be careful on how we organise ourselves as a country ahead of 2022,” he said. Musau also decried the ongoing 2022 campaigns saying it was polarising the country. He called on political leaders to desist from early campaigns. “The electoral legal framework is clear on the timeliness for political campaigns. Any activity outside this framework should be discontinued and action taken on violators,” he said.