The Education ministry is reconsidering the need to fully reopen learning institutions. Grade 4, Standard 8 and Form 4 learners had resumed classes a fortnight ago. The three classes account for about 2.8 million learners. But schools could be headed for a second closure. The rest of the classes were scheduled to resume on Monday next week. A circular by Kenya Association of International Schools dated October 22 has revealed the Education ministry’s intention to revert earlier decision. During the first phase of reopening, Education CS George Magoha termed the first 14 days vital in assessing how the institutions would cope with the Covid-19 crisis. Headteachers were instructed to find gaps hampering learning and ways of solving them. They were also required to conduct a learners' needs assessment before embarking on regular teaching. But the communique by international schools shows the government could have gone slow on the plan. “In light of that spike, the Ministry of Education has elected to postpone further reopening of other levels for in-person learning," it reads. Meantime, the Education ministry will "conduct an audit of this initial phase and iron out a decision model for reclosing and reopening schools as needed due to a resurgence of community transmission," according to the communique. A surge in Covid cases and learning disparities due to closure of schools has left the Education ministry puzzling over the possibility of another shutdown. Sources within the government have registered reservations about continued stay of learners in school. On Wednesday, Star of the Sea Secondary School and Tononoka High School in Mombasa were closed following 15 coronavirus cases. Despite the uncertainty, experts argue against reclosure. Githinji Gitahi, Amref Health Africa CEO, says closure cannot serve as a long-term solution. Gitahi says that the initial closure was meant to prepare schools, noting that at the time, schools “didn’t have sanitiser and handwashing booths. Now these things are available”. “The important thing is how to do precision public health so we only close clusters of origin. If one person coughs you can’t give everyone cough syrup,” he added. Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi, for her part, said, “ We need to be patient. Covid is here with us; we don’t know for how long. Our estimate is two to three years. So we must learn to live with it.” The two spoke in Nairobi at a Covid-19 symposium hosted by the Aga Khan University on Thursday.  They sit on the National Emergency Response Committee.