The new Note 8 was unveiled today and it exudes sleekness and power. The premium online-driven smartphone brand, Infinix, has once again outdone themselves with an excellent all-round smartphone model that is targeted at the mid-to-high end market segment.  The new Note 8’s high performance will make it one to watch and for others to envy.  The brand’s new flagship model comes with a high-performance MediaTek Helio G80 processor, the biggest dual front camera screen, 64M Ultra HD 6 cameras, and a fast-charging, massive 5200mAh battery with super long endurance among others, making it an ultra-sleek, ultra-fast, and ultra-long-lasting phone. The new Note 8 comes in 3 mesmerizing color designs such as silver diamond, Iceland fantasy and deep-sea luster with subtle patterns in the reflective glass.  Excellent all-round performance The high-performance MediaTek Helio G80 processor with MediaTek Hyper Engine Game Technology powering the new Note 8 makes it incredibly fast and ensures that the phone provides a comprehensive strong and smooth all-around performance. This high-performance chipset not only makes it more fluent and more stable but also delivers an unparalleled E-sports experience, where top scores in every game will be a breeze - an ideal choice for game lovers who want an ultra-smooth gaming experience. Ensuring that users enjoy an uninterrupted performance while on the go is the Note 8’s new fast charging, massive 5200mAh battery with super long endurance.  This battery coupled with power marathon tech embedded in the device will keep the phone going for hours on end.  For avid gamers, this will ensure users have hours of gameplay or binge-watching.  For the successful business person or entrepreneur, Note 8 provides crucial connectivity while on the go, ensuring easy access to essential functions like email, office-related apps, video conferencing apps, and more. To address heat issues while charging your phones, the new Note has dual engine technology. This keeps the Note 8 cool, reducing the heat by 8 degrees while charging  Bringing visual experience to a whole new level One of the key highlights of the Note 8 is that features the biggest dual front camera screen in the industry - a 20.5:9 screen with dual super tiny camera punch-hole - allowing the display to wrap around the punch hole and be less of an inconvenience when consuming media. And to broaden one’s horizons, even more, is the phone’s 6.95" Dual Infinity-O Display. Its precise cutting ensures that the camera remains clear of any blockages and does not suffer from a degradation of the picture quality.  To complete the users’ audiovisual experience, Note 8 comes with dual speakers surround sound including DTS and 4 modes that deliver immersive musical experiences for your ears and soul.  Allowing users to level up the sound effect to better enjoy the audio experiences while watching their favorite movies or listening to music or gaming Making super stable videos easy To meet the exacting demands of mobile phone users in the 5G era, Infinix has made continuous efforts to improve the camera functions of its smartphones.  The new Note 8 comes equipped with a top of the line set of high definition cameras - 64MP Ultra HD 6 Cameras – that will allow users to capture every wonderful moment in life in unbelievable detail, with crystal clear clarity and lifelike beauty.  In today’s world of TikTok and vlogging, there is a huge demand to produce professional-quality videos while on the go.  After intense testing and evaluation by Infinix’s development team, Vidhance’s video enhancement solution was chosen, as it provided top quality video stabilization software.  This was successful implemented in Note 7 to great reviews. For uncompromising quality when it comes to video performance and stabilization, the Note 8 will also have leading video-enhancement algorithms from Vidhance®.  This will guarantee stability and clarity of videos when using the Note 8.  And should users decide on making a dramatic slow-motion video, the phone’s Slow Motion Capture will capture every frame of the action without missing a detail.  Infinix has also found a solution to combat insufficient light situations that have been plaguing users when shooting videos.  By spending more than 180 days and nights of unremitting research and development to address this issue, Note 8’s Ultra Night Mode 2.0 can deliver uncompromising results under low light conditions. Designed for success The physical allure of phones will definitely bring in admirers and one’s phone might just be as important to one’s personal style as the clothes on their back.  The new Note 8 has a sleek design with GEM CUT that is both trendy and professional.  The exquisite craftsmanship of the phone is filled with unique lines and technological originality, with its Gem Cut back design for transparency and durability.  Comfort is certainly not compromised in place of looks, as the Note 8 gives you a more comfortable grip than you ever expected.  “We are committed to developing cutting-edge products that will become the industry benchmark, so we are very proud to launch Note 8 to global markets.  Our latest flagship Note smartphone has been designed and developed with current and future everyday challenges in mind.  The latest in our Note series combines Infinix’s technological innovation strength with our deep insights into our target consumers’ real needs to deliver an overall enhanced experience in terms of looks, power, and endurance.  The Note 8 is ideal for elite users who are used to the elite lifestyle and all that it offers,” said Mike Zhang, Infinix brand manager, Kenya.  The Note 8 will be launched on October 21, at an online global conference live on the Infinix Mobile YouTube channel here https://bit.ly/3o4E338, Facebook and local TV stations at 8pm EAT.