Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro has vowed not to surrender himself to the police over chaos that rocked Kenol town in Murang’a county on Sunday. This is even as police said they are set to officially summon the legislator and his Kandara counterpart Alice Wahome over the clashes that left two people dead. “They were asked to present themselves to the police through social media but we want to officially write to them to surrender to the nearest station,” a source at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations told the Star. Meanwhile, a lobby group calling itself Murang’a Peace and Governance Forum held peaceful demonstrations to condemn the killing of the two men. The group called for “immediate and unconditional surrender of Nyoro and Wahome” to the DCI. Nyoro nonetheless said it would be illogical for Wahome and him to mobilise youths to disrupt a meeting they were hosting. “There is no way we could organise a meeting and invite Deputy President William Ruto and then mobilise youths to stop the same gathering,” he said. Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga cautioned politicians against pursuing their ambitions using all means possible. “It should not be that someone must be president of this country,” she said. Wanga said Nyoro has declined to present himself to the police because he wants to be arrested dramatically to gain political mileage. “It is this lawlessness that defines allies of the Deputy President. Why can't they just present themselves to the police if they are innocent?” she posed. Uasin Gishu Woman Rep Gladys Shollei, however, blamed the police for the violence, saying officers should have secured the area well in advance. “How did crooks get there? What happened to intelligence? It was a complete failure on the part of the police,” Shollei said. Nyoro said the only people they mobilised to attend the meeting were the over 40 MPs who graced the harambee. The Kiharu MP accused the police of using them to cleanse the mess they had created. “You saw the people who waited for us in Githurai on the same day. It was a sea of humanity. Where did we get such money to mobilise such a crowd?” he asked. Nyoro added that he would not be roaming freely if he was indeed behind the Sunday violence. Nyoro and Wahome were on Monday summoned by the DCI over the chaotic scenes that preceded a visit by Ruto to a local church. DCI indicated they had every reason to believe the two, among other legislators, mobilised goons who caused the chaos. Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai, while ordering their arrest, said the motor vehicles that were hired to ferry the goons be tracked and detained to assist in the investigations. Nyoro claimed he contacted area security bosses on Saturday evening and informed them of a plan to cause chaos on Sunday. “I even have a text message which I sent to the county commissioner Mohammed Barre,” the legislator said. The MP further claimed that police officers watched as youth set ablaze tires on the road and then went on to tear gas those who were clearing the roads. “Police were throwing tear gas to people who were chasing away the youths who were burning tires,” he said. Edited by EKibii