Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has been named as the best performing county chief in a survey where residents rated their leaders. The study by Infotrak considered the performance of county chiefs for 2019-2020 period. Oparanya is serving his second and last term and has indicated that he would be seeking a higher position come 2022. Oparanya, who is also the Council of Governors chairman, had a mean score of 82.3 per cent followed by Kwale's Salim Mvurya (77.1 per cent) and Makueni's Kivutha Kibwana (74.4 per cent). Mvurya and Kibwana are also serving their last terms. Kisumu’s Anyang’ Nyong’o was fourth followed by Alfred Mutua (Machakos), John Longangapuo (West Pokot), Jackson Mandago (Uasin Gishu), Muthomi Njuki (Tharaka Nithi) and Josphat Nanok (Turkana). Bomet's Hillary Barchok closed the top 10 list. Residents rated the performance of their governors in agriculture, health and education sectors. Kakamega County was also ranked the best performing county with a score of 57.4 per cent followed by Kwale (54.8 per cent) and Makueni (54.7 per cent). Tana River was ranked the worst performing county (39.5 per cent) followed by Wajir (41.3 per cent) and Isiolo (42.0 per cent). In the agriculture sector, Kakamega also emerged the best followed by West Pokot, Makueni, Bungoma, Uasin Gishu. Infotrak aid the CountyTrak Performance Index was designed with the core objective of ascertaining county residents’ assessment on the performance of their county governments against set key performance indicators. The CountyTrak Index tool consisted of 12 functions with 33 key performance indicators and five approval rating questions. The poll was conducted between October- December 2019 and January 2020. The pilot was conducted between August and September 2019. The overall sample was 37,600 and the data was collected through Computer Assisted Telephone Interviews. “A current subscriber base of 33 million and mobile penetration of 82.6 provided an excellent opportunity for the adoption of technology in data collection,” the report said. 