The Kisumu Covid-19 multi-agency committee has issued fresh directives to enforce safety protocols in public transport. A total of 1,075 cases have been confirmed to date from a test sample of 11,737. The county has recorded 19 deaths. The committee led by Governor Anyang Nyong'o and county commissioner Josephine Ouko directed police to mount an intensive crackdown on public service vehicle operators flouting the Covid-19 safety guidelines by carrying excess passengers. In a statement to the newsrooms, the committee said all PSV operators without valid and current Covid-19 clearance must obtain it with immediate effect or face stern action. "Such licenses must be issued under the seal of the county director of public health and the county commissioner upon inspection of the said vehicles for compliance with Covid-19 regulations," the statement said. The committee said all PSVs must provide sanitiser to passengers. They must also ensure all passengers boarding their vehicles have masks. They must also keep passenger manifests. Matatu saccos whose fleets will fail to adhere to the guidelines will be deregistered. These strict guidelines, according to the committee, also apply to boda bodas and tuk-tuks. Tuk-tuks must carry not more than three passengers while the boda bodas should carry only one passenger at a time. Burial ceremonies are restricted to a maximum of 200 mourners and bodies must be buried within six hours after collection from mortuaries. Night vigils remain banned. Patients placed on home-based care must strictly comply with regulations. If found flouting such regulations, the offending patient will be placed under mandatory quarantine at their cost. Police and the public health officials are under firm instruction to withdraw business licenses and close down any bar or hotel failing to observe Covid-19 guidelines. The committee appealed to Kisumu residents to help the government stop the spread of the disease by observing the safety guidelines. "Those appearing in public without masks or those not properly worn will face punitive measures in accordance with the Public Health Act. Law enforcers are under strict instructions to take action against such people," the committe said. Edited by Henry Makori