The Nairobi Remand Prison will not be receiving any remandeees from outside beginning Wednesday. This is after it emerged that the prison was experiencing an exponential increase in the number of Covid-19 cases. For instance, 35 out of the 64 cases recorded by Nairobi on Tuesday were from the facility. The Prisons Department, the Police Service and the courts have thus been directed to jointly determine a framework to deal with the emerging issue to ensure the criminal the criminal justice system is not disrupted. The prison will now be on a lockdown mode. “Already we know that the prisons have implemented the protocols quite strictly; we know that the Industrial Remand Prison has followed our protocols of not allowing any visitations or any external visitors coming to that environment,” Health CAS Rashid Aman said. “This directive now stops remandees from being transferred to that facility until such time that we can contain the situation then bring down the numbers of those who are infected.” The CAS noted that since prisons are in a closed system, it will be easy to manage the containment measures and a break the cycle of transmission. “Transmissions in systems like these are brought from outside. Those remandees come from our own communities, they end up in the police cells and eventually in prisons,” he said. “We need to break that cycle of transmission and that is why that action is being taken.” This comes even as the Health Ministry announced that the country’s positivity rate on Wednesday stood at above 10 per cent. Some 137 more positive cases were confirmed, bringing the caseload to 39,586. The new cases were from 1,258 samples. On a positive note, 296 more people recovered, 228 from home-based care while 68 were discharged from hospitals. This brings the total number of total recoveries to 27,331. The new cases are aged between 1 year and 81 years, comprising of 94 men and 43 women. All except one are Kenyans. Eight more patients succumbed to the virus, raising the number of deaths to 743. Turkana recorded 34 cases, coming second after Nairobi, which had 64 cases. Mombasa had 12 cases, Kiambu eight, Uasin Gishu six, Trans Nzoia four while Meru, Nakuru, Kajiado, Kericho, Kisii, Kisumu, Laikipia, Machakos and Tharaka Nithi recorded one case each. Edited by EKibii