Lake Region Economic Bloc (LREB) will on Tuesday kick off mask distribution to vulnerable school children in Kisumu’s flood-prone areas. LREB Health Pillar director Dr Rosemary Obara said the beneficiaries' lives in rescue camps were affected after their homes were swept away by floods in March and April. Obara said Nyamasao and Ombaka primary schools have been identified by the LREB Advisory Committee on Covid-19 Prevention, Control, and Socio-Economic Mitigation chaired by Khama Rogo to benefit. “The schools were identified as vulnerable because children come from the already crowded camps to schools posing them to risk of COVID-19,” Obara said. More than 500 pupils in Nyando sub-county who were affected by floods will benefit from donations. The committee, she said, has 2,000 face masks for distribution following mobilisation from well-wishers. “We will be giving out washable masks to vulnerable children. These are children who go to school from evacuation centres,” Obara said. The bloc chaired by Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has 14 member counties namely Kisumu, Migori, Busia, Kisii, Nyamira, Bungoma, Kakamega, Vihiga, Homa Bay, Siaya, Nandi, Bomet, Trans Nzoia, and Kericho. She said the bloc has also received a 10,000 USD (Sh 1 million ) donations from the Chinese Embassy towards the fight against Covid-19. Obara said they are committed to slowing down the spread of Covid-19 in the 14 counties. “We have prioritised handwashing. We know that hygiene and sanitation are very important in controlling the disease,” she said. Obara said they are mobilising resources to help the schools that do not have the handwashing and sanitation equipment. “In fact, statistics show that half of the schools in the area lack handwashing facilities,” she added. The committee is also focusing on solutions to the socio-economic challenges facing businesses, households, and the community, Obara said. She said the pandemic has rendered thousands of families vulnerable. Obara stated that the committee has partnered with financial institutions to help in socio-economic recovery.