Kakamega Homeboyz chairman Cleophas Shimanyula has called on Football Kenya Federation (FKF) president Nick Mwendwa to shop for more sponsors in order to improve the quality of the country’s top flight league. Last month, the federation formally took over the running of the competition, which was initially manned by the Kenya Premier League Limited. However, Shimanyula believes the sponsors, who have been brought on board to partner with the FKF PL are not enough. “Now that he has been re-elected, I urge him to right the many wrongs from his first term. He must ensure all the leagues are well sponsored and run professionally. He should use his office, powers and influence to bring more sponsors into the game and ensure fairness to all,” he added The firebrand administrator spoke exactly a day after skipping the FKF elections that were held at the Safari Park Hotel in Nairobi in which Mwendwa retained his seat with a landslide majority. Kakamega Homeboyz were the only Kenyan Premier League side that failed to send representation to the elections but Shimanyula now insists that his absence was inconsequential. “I have nothing personal against Mwendwa or the federation, but I do not like his style of leadership. He played his cards well during the campaigns and there was no way he could have lost.  Obviously, I wouldn’t have voted and my vote wouldn’t have made any difference. Staying away from the exercise is my democratic right too. Further, I did not have time to travel to Nairobi since I was busy running my business and ensuring that my team is ready for the new season,” he said. Shimanyula, who has been a fierce critic of Mwendwa, further said he didn’t have a preferred candidate in the race and chose to shun the event in order to attend to personal business. Meanwhile, Shimanyula has revealed that Homeboyz are pursuing the signatures of four players to bolster their squad ahead of next season. The club will be seeking to plug in the void left by their mercurial offensive midfielder Peter Thiongo who decamped to AFC Leopards.