Headteachers in Nakuru and Nyandarua counties are calling on the government to first release supporting funds to schools before they reopen on Monday. The teachers said the schools were in poor condition after seven months of closure and that they did not have any learning materials. They have also called on the government to help some students with masks as their parents cannot afford. Education CS George Magoha on Tuesday directed students in Grade IV, Class 8 and those in Form 4 to report back on Monday. Magoha also announced that national exams (KCPE and KCSE) will be  done in mid-March next year A head teacher in Naivasha who declined to be named said they were yet to receive any funds from the government to rehabilitate schools. “Some of the roofs are falling, the classes need painting, the desks should be repaired but we have not received any penny from the government,” the teacher said. Another teacher from a boarding school in Kinangop said they do not have funds to source meals and other needs that students need. He said the government should first release funds to rehabilitate the schools before issuing hasty decisions on the reopening dates. “The CS is speaking about social distance yet all public schools are overcrowded due to the 100 percent transition directive which has been worsened by an acute shortage of teachers,” he said. Speaking earlier, Kenya Secondary Schools Heads of Association chairman in Nakuru county Fredrick Mbuthia said the challenges facing the schools were rising by the day. He noted that since the pandemic was reported and schools closed down, the government had not released any supporting funds. “Some schools that have income generating projects were forced to sell the assets as they were no longer viable during the period,” he said. Mbuthia added that as schools reopen, they have pending bills worth millions of shillings due to the pandemic. “Currently, schools are covered by bushes and electricity supply has been disconnected due to none-payment,” he said.