Trouble is brewing in the Orange party in the County assembly of Nairobi after it disregarded a High Court order to swear in nominated MCA. The court last month had given an order giving the assembly up to October 1, 2020, to have Perpetua Mponjiwa sworn in as a nominated MCA. According to Minority leader Michael Ogada, ODM party has never recognized Mponjiwa as its own, therefore she cannot be sworn in. The party stands with Eve Malenya who was de-registered from the IEBC nomination list last year following a successful court case by Mponjiwa. “It is enlightening to note that it is the political parties that nominate such Members to the special seat positions. In the view of this, it will be in total contravention of the law for this honourable House to give a nod and proceed to swear in a member who resigned from the ODM on May 8, 2017, and as such has never been recognized by the very party she purports to cling on,” he said. Ogada further noted that ODM as a political party has its own mechanisms and structures particularly the National Executive Council which the member could have used to have her issue resolved amicably and in good time. The Minority leader who doubles up as Embakasi ward rep explained that the declaration of a seat being vacant is supposed to be made by the Speaker. However, since 2017 no declaration has never been made by any of the Speakers of the Nairobi County Assembly. “We understand that IEBC did the de-gazettement, so what is supposed to be ahead of the other, is it the IEBC to de-gazette or the Speaker to declare a seat vacant,’ Ogada stated. On July 2, 2020 drama was witnessed outside the assembly after a man stripped down to his innerwear protesting his wife’s deregistration, Eve Malenya, as a nominated MCA. Malenya was deregistered from the IEBC nomination list last year following a flawed nomination by ODM in 2017. He had been tipped that Mponjiwa was to be sworn in that day Last year in April, Malenya had sought court orders to stop the swearing-in of Mponjiwa, who had been fronted by the party to replace her. Malenya said she was the right person for nomination as MCA. She wants the court to suspend the April 5, 2019 Gazette notice on Mponjiwa's swearing-in, arguing it is illegal. “It is apparent that Mponjiwa has been gazetted as the ODM nominee under the gender top-up category, yet ODM never forwarded her name in its final list,” read the court documents. She stated that Mponjiwa ran as an independent candidate in the 2017 General Election and was ineligible to be nominated or elected under the ODM party list. Malenya added ODM and the Political Parties Dispute Resolution Tribunal invited parties to present their claims before the party tribunal. “The IEBC Dispute Resolution Committee ordered ODM to review its list for the Nairobi county assembly,” she said. She said ODM reviewed its list and submitted a new list with the consequence that Mponjiwa's candidacy was rejected for failing to satisfy the criteria for nomination on account of abandoning the party and choosing to be an independent candidate. Malenya said the decision to quit meant Mponjiwa was disloyal to the party. “The swearing-in of Mponjiwa will render the entire Nairobi county assembly illegally constituted because she does not meet the criteria set out in Article 193(i)(c)(i) of the Constitution, as well as Section 25 of the Elections Act, to be nominated and elected as a Member of the Nairobi County Assembly,” the document reads. However, up to date Perpetua has never taken an oath and been sworn-in. None of the two women has been receiving remuneration for the last one year.