 The Kenya Plant Health Inspectorate Service has detected high levels of pesticide residues in fresh produce sampled from markets within Nakuru county. In a letter sent to the county government, Kephis acting managing director Simeon Kogo said samples analysed in their laboratories showed maximum limits of heavy metal contaminants and residue for pesticides. “Samples of tomatoes collected from some local markets tested positive and had exceedance of Methamidophos at 0.03 mg/kg. Samples of tomatoes collected from Elburgon market also tested positive and had exceedance of Methamidophos at 0.02 mg/kg,” Kogo said. The samples were collected on September 9. The maximum residue limit according to the European Union Standards is 0.01 mg/kg. “It is noted that methamidophos is a metabolite resulting from the use of acephate and currently, acephate has been withdrawn from use on edible vegetables,” Kogo said. He asked the county government to ensure continuous awareness creation on the withdrawal of acephate use on vegetables, and ensure farmers adhere to good agricultural practices to enhance food safety. "Also alert your officers from the public health department to follow up on this matter to guarantee the safety of fresh produce being supplied to the consumers.” Kephis is a state agency mandated to regulate the quality of agro-inputs and produce. It also supports the administration and enforcement of food safety measures. Kogo said they have established service laboratories to monitor the quality and levels of toxic residues in plants, agricultural produce, agro-inputs, irrigation water and soil. “In fulfilling its mandate, the agency implements a national pesticide residue monitoring programme to monitor the quality and safety of locally-sold fresh produce as well as produce destined for the export market,” he said. Anne Maina from the Biosafety Association of Kenya said acephate is one of eight ingredients they want banned in Kenya. She is among petitioners to the Parliamentary Committee on Health for the withdrawal of toxic pesticides. “Tomatoes are one of the major crops grown with highly poisonous pesticides which can cause changes in the body leading to cancer. We call for county governments to ensure the withdrawal of all these toxic pesticides and agricultural inputs,” Maina said. Early this month, a survey conducted by Kenya Organic Agriculture Network and Eco-Trac Consulting found that chemical pesticides were being used on crops including tomatoes and kales in Murang’a and Kirinyaga counties. “During our survey, we established that agrovet dealers recommend pesticide products, which are proven to have certain chronic health effects and are toxic to bees and fish as well. Some of them are already withdrawn from the European market,” KOAN chief executive Eustace Kiarii said.  Edited by P.O