No part of Kenya is beyond our reach. This is the declaration of Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 strategy team that has decided that no part of Kenya is anyone’s stronghold. According to insiders, Ruto’s team is venturing into areas not considered to be his stronghold with the aim of selling his candidacy. The Star has established that Ruto has moved to expand his team to include people who have worked with his main opponents until recently. In particular, the team is seeking to expand his inroads in Western Kenya and Nyanza that have been Raila Odinga’s strongholds. President Uhuru Kenyatta appeared to be sending a warning shot to politicians creating chaos in the country on Wednesday. This came in the form of a statement issued by Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua on behalf of the National Security Advisory Council outside the Office of the President. NSAC warned politicians, the media and social media users of repercussions if found to have been spreading hatred. In a move seen to be targeted by DP William Ruto, NSAC said that all political meetings must be registered with the nearest police station, three days before they happen. Jubilee and ODM were unable to account for Sh77 million and Sh23 million respectively, which was to go towards Special Interest Groups for the 2017/2018 financial year. A report by Centre for Multi-Party Democracy indicates that the financial audit reports of the two parties could not determine if the money went to the groups. The Political Parties Act requires that political parties receiving public funding should utilise 15 per cent on the youth, women and people living with disability and other minorities and marginalised groups. The police may soon get clearance to spy on your telephone communications on any slight suspicion that you are dealing in drugs or linked to drug dealers. A proposed law seeks to further provide room for the police to enter into your premises and install devices that can tap calls. For purposes of obtaining evidence, a court may allow a police officer above the rank of Chief Inspector to execute such an operation. Police, however, will be required to apply for written consent of the Director of Public Prosecutions before moving to court. To guard against abuse, police officers who obtain information illegally would be jailed ten years or fined Sh10 million or both. A multi-agency team auditing the settlements outside the Mau Forest has received one of the oddest explanations yet on loss of title deeds. David Cheruiyot told the team that a mischievous monkey burned his land ownership documents. He said he did not see the need to close the house with a lock, as the area did not have security problems. After getting water, he returned, only to find the monkey had eaten flour and other food. The land documents had gone up in smoke after the monkey set them on fire, Cheruiyot said. He said he was not to blame for loss of the documents - the monkey made the mess.