Fresh leadership wrangles have emerged in Western region as divisions rock youthful politicians. The weekend move to make changes in the leadership of Magharibi Youth Movement has threatened to tear apart young legislators. Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala, who was purportedly removed from leadership of the lobby, said outsiders were interfering with the leadership of the region. “The youth of Mulembe nation should independently plan their political journey without unnecessary influence from outsiders,” he stated. Youthful politicians reportedly ejected Malala from their leadership and replaced him with Saboti MP Caleb Amisi. He was immediately mandated to create strategies for rejuvenating the region’s socio-economic growth. The lobby made the changes during a meeting that brought together delegates from the five counties of Western: Trans Nzoia, Bungoma, Kakamega, Busia and Vihiga. Amisi said the region had for long suffered economic marginalisation despite it being a vote-rich. "We want the region to stop being a centre of political brokerage during elections. We must be part of the government of the day," Amisi said. The top leadership in the region has been embroiled in supremacy battles as the country heads to the 2022 elections. The region has had ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford-Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang’ula on one side and Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa and Cotu boss Francis Atwoli on the other. Oparanya and Wamalwa have been holding meetings to consolidate their influence in the region with the blessings of the Luhya Elders Forum and some former Cabinet ministers. Oparanya and Wamalwa's tours started soon after a meeting at Atwoli’s Kajiado home. More than 30 MPs and leaders from Western attended but Mudavadi and Wetang’ula were absent. However, the region has been presumed to be tightly in the grip of Mudavadi and Wetang’ula. Atwoli has been behind the tours of Oparanya and Wamalwa but recently made an about-turn and declared that Mudavadi had not been replaced as the Luhya spokesman. Malala said Magharibi Youth Movement should be allowed to grow stronger to agitate for the interests of the community. Nominated Senator Mercy Chebeni, who was among the group that allegedly ejected Malala, said there was a need for the region to address issues that have been derailing growth. Edited by Henry Makori