Kakamega county’s main health facilities are overstretched by Covid-19 patients. Health executive Dr Collins Matemba said the Mumias Level 4 Hospital, which is the main isolation centre in the town, has been overrun. The facility has a bed capacity of 50, but had 61 Covid-19 patients on Thursday. The county government has put the Likuyani Subcounty Hospital and the County General Hospital on standby for Covid-19 patients. On Thursday, Covid-19 claimed county chief of staff Robert Sumbi in Bungoma, where he had been transferred by CGH after his condition deteriorated. Governor Wycliffe Oparanya shut down the county offices on Wednesday and ordered mandatory tests. Staff based at the headquarters are being tested at CGH. Matemba said that the administration has intensified contact tracing and is encouraging home-based care to address the shrinking bed capacity. "We are no longer admitting patients at the CGH. In fact, this is the worst time for anyone to fall sick because you may not find a bed," a doctor at the general hospital told the Star. The county had 316 patients by Thursday out of which 57 are health workers. The theatre is not fully operational as some of the nurses in the section are recuperating. However, medics told the Star testing is slow due to lack of testing kits. On Thursday, only 17 samples were tested. Meanwhile, many residents are in panic following the surge of Covid-19 cases. Third year student at Masinde Muliro University Christine Adhiambo said the county had done little to prevent the spread of the virus. "It's unfortunate that the county government has not bothered to supply even face masks to residents, yet some of the people here are too poor to afford them. The handwashing points that existed are no longer visible and crowding is the order of the day in markets and other places," she said. Kenya National Nurse's Association Kakamega branch chairman Charles Openda attributed the rise in infections among health workers to poor training and inadequate supply of protective gear. “The county government should ensure a steady supply of enough and of acceptable quality PPE to medics to avoid reuse and overuse of the gear. Some of the health workers contracted the virus in the theatre,” he said.   